IOSCO plans risk outlook report for EMS
Ambuja to seek shareholders nod for amalgamation
Re ends flat ahead of Fed policy outcome
Rupee could appreciate to 59-61/USD: India Ratings
Stock Buzz: Keep an eye on MindTree from midcap IT
It is a market of traders, not investors: Ashu Madan
Gold falls 6-wk low as Fed stimulus verdict looms
Re washes out initial losses against $, up 19 paise
European mkts at 5-yr highs ahead of Fed decision
Jignesh Shah was 'key management person' in NSEL
Expect rupee depreciation to continue: P Agarwal

Wall Street drifts lower as Fed decision looms

ReutersUS stocks dipped ahead of an announcement by Fed on the future of an economic stimulus program.
Sensex up 158 pts to near 20K before Fed decision
Indian market to benefit if US Fed withdraws QE?

India Infoline Finance NCD issue oversubscribed

India Infoline Finance Ltd said its public issue of secured redeemable non-convertible debentures aggregating Rs 525 crore has been fully subscribed.
Jewellery scrips in demand after hike in gold import duty
Brokerages turning cautious on Indian mkts: 5 reasons

Amendments to Sebi Act gets Presidential assent

The bill amending Sebi Act to widen the pool of eligible candidates for the post of presiding officer at the SAT has received the Presidential assent.
Sundaram Trading buys 25 lakh shares of Bharat Forge
Smallcaps that can give good returns in near term
BHEL falls over 4% | 'Will come out of doldrums'

Ambuja to seek shareholders nod for amalgamation
Jewellery scrips in demand after hike in import duty of gold
BHEL falls over 4% as company sends legal notices
SKS up 13% on getting A rating for bank facilities
Brokerages up price target on Dr Reddy's to Rs 2,720

Countdown to US Fed meet: America decides, world sits tight
India Inc wants 'out-of-box' solution from Raghuram Rajan on Sept 20 
UK favours closer engagement with Gujarat, Narendra Modi: David Cameron
Sony launches waterproof Xperia Z1 smartphone for Rs 44,990 |
PicsGovt may approve 10% DA hike on Friday, to benefit 80 lakh
How Kochhar saved ICICI Bank from Lehman bankruptcy crisis 
Sun TV's frequent buying & selling of aircraft sends analysts into a tizzy
Urgent fiscal action needed, little room with RBI: Jim Walker
US Immigration Bill: IBM softens stance; may benefit Indian IT 
Indian mkt to benefit if US Fed hits red button, withdraws QE? 
Apple iPhone 5C pre-orders 'not overwhelming': Reports 
Economy may take 3 yrs to rebound: Zia Mody 
India losing its sleep to slowdown
Nandan Nilekani to contest Lok Sabha seat on Congress ticket?
Infy 3.0 needs two-pronged lift to meet revenue targets: Analysts
Twitter leads Google, Facebook in mobile ad space
Microsoft revamps Bing, unveils new logo for search engine



J&K Bank chairman Mushtaq Ahmad gets three-year extension after RBI clearance
Bhartiya Mahila Bank to recruit 115 probationary officers
How Chanda Kochhar saved ICICI Bank from being engulfed by Lehman bankruptcy
YES Bank raises $255 million overseas under RBIs swap plan

Aggregate - A whole consisting of the combination of smaller separate elements.

Aggregate Planning - The process of planning and developing the best way of producing the right amount of goods, at the right time and at the minimum cost, based on the total number of items which need to be produced, and the amount of materials, equipment and workers necessary for production.

Aggressive Growth Fund - A high risk investment fund in which shares are expected to increase in value very quickly in the hope of making large profits.

Agile Development Method - A type of business development which gets things moving quickly and adapts during the development, as distinct from conventional planning and project management implementation.

Agio - The percentage charged by a bank for exchanging one form of currency or money, into another that is more valuable.

Anchor Tenant - The first and most prestigious tenant, typically a store in a shopping centre, that will attract other tenants or shoppers.

Ancillary Staff - People who provide necessary support to the primary activities and work of an organization, e.g: schools, hospitals.

Annuity - Often used to provide a pension. An annuity is a fixed regular payment payed over a number of years to a person during their lifetime.

Appraisal - A review of performance, capability, needs, etc., typically of an employee, in which case the full term is normally 'performance appraisal'.

Arbiter - A person who settles a dispute or has the ultimate authority to decide the outcome of a matter.

Arbitrator - An independent person or body officially appointed to settle a dispute.

Articles Of Association - The document which lists the regulations which govern the running of a company, setting out the rights and duties of directors and stockholders, individually and in meetings.

Aspirational Brand - A brand or product which people admire and believe is high quality, and wish to own because they think it will give them a higher social position.

Assets - Anything of value which is owned by an individual, company, organisation, etc.

Asset Stripping - Buying a stricken company and selling off its assets with no thought for the future of the company or its people, customers, etc.

Attrition - The process of reducing the number of employees in an organisation by not replacing people who leave their jobs.

Auditor - A qualified person who officially examines the financial records of a company to check their accuracy.

Average Daily Rate - In the hotel industry a calculation of the average price at which a hotel room is booked each night based on total daily revenue divided by the number of rooms sold. The term may have more general meanings in other contexts.

Abandonment rate
ABC analysis
Academy company
Acquisition initiation (ISPL)
Adaptability
Additional funds needed (financial concept)
Adversarial purchasing
Affinity diagram
Agile manufacturing
Amalgamated (organization name)
Analyst relations
Analytics
Asset stripping
Associate attorney
Asymmetric price transmission
Attach rate
Authorized service provider
Automated business process
Automotive business development center
Available-to-promise
Average daily rate
AverchJohnson effect
Awayday
Back office
Backsourcing
Balanced scorecard
Banking BPO services
Barter
Behavioral analytics
Bespoke
Bestshoring
Big business
BizBroker24
Boleto
Boutique manufacturing
Brainsworking
Brick and mortar
Burn rate
Business acquisition
Business activity monitoring
Business alliance
Business analyst
Business analytics
Business and company operating manual
Business broker
Business ecosystem
Business engineering
Business excellence
Business failure
Business hours
Business information
Business/IT alignment
Business license
Business magnate
Business networking
Business operating system (management)
Business operations
Business park
Business partner
Business process automation
Business process outsourcing
Business process overhead
Business process reengineering
Business relations
Business rule
Business rule mining
Business stature
Business technology
Business technology management
Business transformation
Business triage
Busy work

Cabotage
Capability management in business
Capitalization-weighted index
Captain of industry
Captive service
Captive supply
Captive unit
Career development
Cash advance
Centralisation
Certified marine insurance professional
Chain store
Change order
Channel coordination
Channel partner
Chattel mortgage
Churn rate
Citizen enterprise
Clean-sheet review
Collaborative leadership
Colocation (business)
Commitment control
Commodity
Commodity value
Communication audit
Communication quotient
Competitive heterogeneity
Concern (business)
Concession (contract)
Congagement
Consularization
Continuing education unit
Continuous-flow manufacturing
Control (management)
Cornering the market
Corporate development
Corporate group
Corporate haven
Corporate jargon
Corporate promoter
Corporate recovery
Corporate tax
Corporate welfare
Cost estimation models
Cost-plus contract
Counterproductive norms
Counting house
Country risk
Country-of-origin effect
Creeping normalcy
Critical path method
Critical success factor
Critical to quality
Cross-docking
CTQ tree
User:Cube b3/ducksauce
Cultural intelligence
Cultural synergy
Custom house
Customer attrition
Customer base
Customer involvement management
Customer retention
Customer satisfaction
Customization (international marketing)
Dashboard (business)
Debtor-in-possession financing
Deferred tax
Delivery (commerce)
Delivery schedule adherence
Deployment flowchart
Design Manufacture Service DMS
Desktop outsourcing
Digital strategy
Dilutive security
Dirty subsidy
Dogs of the Dow
Drawdown (economics)
Earnings
Earnings call
Electronic business
Electronic kanban
Elemental cost planning
Elevator pitch
Emerging markets
Empire-building
Employee exit management
Employee self-service (web-based application)
Employee value proposition
Engineering, procurement and construction
Enhanced use lease
Enterprise modelling
Enterprise social networking
Enterprise social software
Entrenched player's dilemma
Entrepreneurial network
Entrepreneurship ecosystem
Event chain diagram
Event chain methodology
Evergreening
Executive suite
Eyeballs (term)
F-Law
Farmshoring
Featherbedding
Outline of finance
Finder's fee
Fine print
Firm service
First pass yield
First-mover advantage
First-party source
Flag of convenience
Flag of convenience (business)
Focus phrase
Forfaiting
Formula for Change
Forrester effect mapping
Forward-forward agreement
Fraud deterrence
Free agent (business)
Free cash flow
Front office
Funding
Gift suite
Global sourcing
Golden boot compensation
Golden handcuffs
Golden handshake
Golden hello
Golden parachute
Golden umbrella
Good standing
Greed and fear
Green Monday
Gross up clause
Group booking
Growth capital
Growth platforms
Guaranteed investment contract
Hold-up problem
Honorarium
Horizontal integration
Implementation maturity model assessment
Independent business
Index (economics)
Induction programme
Industrial market segmentation
Infopreneur
Information market
Information technology outsourcing
Inshoring
Intelligent customer
Interlocking directorate
Internal customer
Internal entrepreneur
Internationalization and localization
Inverse floating rate note
Invoice
January barometer
Job hunting
Job migration
Job order contracting
Know-net consortium
Knowledge broker
Knowledge economy
Knowledge ecosystem
Knowledge management
Knowledge policy
Knowledge spillover
Knowledge value
Knowledge worker
Learning economy
Lease
Leasing
Legal case management
Lemonade stand
Leverage (negotiation)
Leveraged recapitalization
Line management
Line of business
Linear scheduling method
List of flags of convenience
Long squeeze
Loyalty Effect
Managed decline
Outline of business management
Management by wandering around
Management fad
Market cannibalism
Market capitalization
Market entry strategy
Marketing and sales effectiveness
Memorandum
Menu cost
Microwork
Midsourcing
Midstream
Mind share
Mission statement
Mobile enterprise
Monetary system
Month-to-date
Multisourcing
Negative assurance
Next Eleven
No-bid contract
Nonrecourse debt
Occupational welfare
Office broker
Office sharing
Offshoring
OKR
On-demand outsourcing
Open business
Operating agreement
Operating cost
Operating model
Operational due diligence
Operational efficiency
Operational excellence
Operations readiness and assurance
Opportunity engineering
Orchestration (computing)
Order (business)
Order book
Organic growth
Organic volume
Organizational capital
Organizational memory
Original equipment manufacturer
Outsourcing
Overhead (business)
Overtrading
Owner earnings
Owner-controlled insurance program
Pac-Man defense
Paper launch
Parent company
Pareto priority index
Patent holding company
Patent map
Patent pool
Path analysis (computing)
Payment
Pension parachute
Performance metric
Perpetual succession
Personal offshoring
Physical restructuring
Planned change
Planning horizon
Point-of-value
Political risk
Portfolio management for new products
Postponement
Pre-determined overhead rate
Pre-emerging markets
Pre-qualification (lending)
Pre-start-up audit
Preferred partnership
Prescriptive analytics
President's Quality Award (US)
Price-weighted index
Process capital
Process management
Process scorecard
Procurement
Product (business)
Product churning
Product life-cycle management (marketing)
Product support
Professional network service
Profiteering (business)
Promoter (entertainment)
Psychological pricing
Public accommodations
Purchasing card
Quality filter mapping
Quality investing
Quarter-to-date
Quick response manufacturing
Rate contract
Reconstruction (law)
Relational view
Rent-to-own
Resource-based view
Responsibility assignment matrix
Responsible entity
Retained interest
Revenue sharing
Revenue stream
Revenue Technology Services
RevPAR
Robber baron (industrialist)
Rolled throughput yield
Safety stock
Sales
Sales management
Sales operations
Sales outsourcing
Sales quota
Sales Territory
SAP Sourcing
Scheme of arrangement
Second-party source
Secret ingredient
Secured loan
Selection in planning
Selfsourcing
Sensitivity analysis
Service network
Service-oriented transformation
Serviceable available market
Servicescape
Shared leadership
Shared services
Shared services center
Shareholder value
Short shipment
Shotgun clause
Single-window system
SIPOC
Six Sigma
Six Sigma for ROI
Small business
Sole proprietorship
Solution chain
Sourcing advisory
Spend analysis
Sprinkler strategy
Strategic alliance
Strategic early warning system
Management cockpit
Strategic enterprise management
Strategic management
Table stakes
Tacit relocation
Technology intelligence
List of abbreviations for market segments
Test and learn
Third-party administrator
Third-party source
Throughput accounting
Time to market
Total addressable market
Quality management framework
Total quality management
Trade finance
Zero Defects
Zone of possible agreement
Winning the Blue Vase
Woman owned business
Value chain management capability
Value investing
Value proposition
Value stream mapping
Value-added reseller
Vertical disintegration
Vertical integration
Virtual airline (economics)
Virtual business
Virtual office
VRIO
Vulture investor
Undercapitalization
Undervalued stock
Utilization rate
Tradespace
Trading account assets
Travel and subsistence
The Coase Theorem, formulated by the late Ronald Coase of the University of Chicago, suggests that the economics of big businesses may have been misunderstood.

TODAY’S ECONOMIST
Perspectives from expert contributors.
Big businesses, especially those with large shares of the markets in which they sell, are sometimes thought to harm the economy because they sell to customers with little fear of competition from other sellers. Big businesses charge too much, the argument goes, and all customers can do in response is to purchase less. (The seller understands that customers respond to high prices by purchasing less, but the high profit margins are thought to more than compensate for the lower volume.)

If the industry had more sellers, or the customers themselves were in charge of production, prices would be lower, consumers would buy more and in aggregate the industry’s sellers would produce more and need more employees.

This “monopoly view” is that dominant businesses result in less industry production and employment than would emerge in a competitive marketplace.

Consistent with the monopoly theory of big business, the federal government, especially the antitrust division of the Department of Justice, is authorized to punish businesses that are thought to be too large for the efficient operation of their marketplace, and in some instances to break them apart.

In the labor market, unions can sometimes be a dominant seller, and on that front there are opposing “monopoly” and “bargaining” theories, as I noted in last week’s post. The bargaining theory of labor unions suggests that they limit the economic damage that they do.

The same sort of bargaining theory is present in the antitrust field. A big business should not be satisfied with a high-price/low-volume outcome, even if it yields more profits than a low-price/high-volume outcome, because a price above marginal cost of production is inefficient: there may be ways that the buyer can be given a better deal and enhance the seller’s profits.

Profs. Kevin Murphy, Edward Snyder and Robert Topel of the University of Chicago have written about some of the results of bargaining between big businesses and their customers. Big businesses often offer volume discounts, quote nonlinear prices and give loyalty incentives to customers. All these policies can encourage customers to purchase more, perhaps in a quantity similar to what they would buy in a many-seller market with lower prices. If the bargaining view of monopolies is correct, then the monopoly view of big business has exaggerated the degree to which dominant sellers harm the economy.
While one point of view is that federal antitrust policy is not vigorous enough, Professor Coase reminds us that it is easy to exaggerate the economic problems created by dominant sellers.
Could corporate America really be losing control of the political process when corporate executives are spending so much to sway elections?
My latest Economic Scene column notes that for all the assertions that the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision would lead to a corporate takeover of politics, corporations seem to be losing the ability to control their historical allies in the Republican Party.
I propose that one reason may be that companies reluctant to open up the campaign spending spigot have been outspent by partisan bazillionaires, including wealthy corporate executives, who do not share corporations’ need to appear nice to both sides.
Critics have made a legitimate point against my argument: who cares whether it’s Las Vegas Sands or its chief, Sheldon Adelson, that is spending hand over fist to push Republicans over the line? In their view, the distinction I make between a business and its executives is irrelevant.
It isn’t quite, though. Executives and their companies contribute to politics very differently. Adam Bonica, a political scientist at Stanford, collected data on the spending on last year’s elections by chief executives and directors of Fortune 500 companies. Then he compared them with the spending by Fortune 500 corporate PACs. The difference is stark.
Consider the first chart below. It confirms corporations’ pro-Republican leanings. But it is hardly extreme. Political spending by corporate PACs clusters just a little to the right of the partisan center. This responds to businesses’ need to keep lines of communication open to both parties – essential for effective lobbying to function.
Amid a flurry of five-year retrospectives came a news item reflecting unfinished business from the financial crisis: the breakdown of settlement talks between the Securities and Exchange Commission and managers from the Reserve Primary Fund, a money market mutual fund whose problems in September 2008 helped transform the failure of Lehman Brothers — by itself a major jolt — into a global financial crisis.

The Reserve Primary Fund owned $785 million in Lehman Brothers debt when Lehman filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, and “broke the buck” as the loss it suffered from this debt reduced the fund’s assets to less than the $1 per share that investors counted on.  Money market funds are not guaranteed by the government, but are nonetheless widely seen as providing a stable investment vehicle with ready access to cash and a yield slightly above that for bank deposits (which are covered by government insurance through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation). Investors rushed for the exit as they realized the losses taken by the Reserve Primary Fund, which in turn put limits on withdrawals.

Investors in the Reserve Primary Fund have since received nearly all of their money back, more than 99 cents on the dollar, but this outcome was not known at the time and, in any case, investors expecting ready access to their money could not get it. The travails of the Reserve Primary Fund led to a panic of withdrawals from similar money market funds — so-called prime funds that invested in short-term debt from supposedly high-quality corporate borrowers.

Faced with huge redemptions from investors seeking cash, money market funds reduced their purchases of commercial paper, which are the short-term debt obligations used by many corporations to generate cash for their day-to-day needs.  Corporations that could not float commercial paper turned to their standby bank lines of credit — something no one had anticipated would happen en masse. As documented by two Harvard Business School professors, Victoria Ivashina and David Scharfstein, this huge involuntary expansion of bank lending led to a reduction in banks’ provision of credit to other firms, especially by banks without stable deposit bases that thus themselves relied on short-term debt markets for financing.
Four days after the Lehman collapse, the Treasury Department announced an insurance program to guarantee money market funds to end the panicked withdrawals, while the Federal Reserve announced a new lending facility so that the funds did not need to undertake fire sales of their holdings to generate the cash to pay off any investors who were still running for the door. The Fed eventually provided credit to issuers of commercial paper to ensure that corporations had access to this financing mechanism. A revealing detail is that even money market mutual funds that invested only in government securities like Treasury bonds still paid for the government insurance, even though if the bonds were no good it would indicate that the United States government did not have the financial capacity to make good on its guarantee. Such was the degree of uncertainty that funds evidently decided that they needed the government insurance as a seal of safety, even if it was purely symbolic.
These government programs together stabilized short-term credit markets — and neither the Treasury nor the Federal Reserve lost money on these interventions (both actually had positive returns from premiums and interest paid by users of the programs) — but the problems arising from money market mutual funds are widely viewed as a crucial channel through which the financial crisis spread from Wall Street to Main Street.
The House Financial Services Committee on Wednesday morning is holding a hearing to examine reforms to prevent another meltdown in the money market fund industry. As explained in a wonderfully clear background memo by the staff of the committee chairman, Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, the S.E.C. started in 2010 to require the funds to hold either more cash or more assets like Treasury bonds that could readily be turned into cash, and it is considering further measures.
Among the options are requiring money market funds to provide more precise information on the value of their holdings so that investors can see more clearly that these vehicles involve risk and are not guaranteed like bank deposits, or having the money market funds impose a penalty on investors seeking to withdraw cash when the funds’ assets are illiquid, like in times of market stress. These proposals would apply only to funds that serve large investors and not the broad public, and would likewise not apply to money market funds that invest only in United States government obligations (which are assumed to be liquid even in a crisis, as was the case five years ago). The S.E.C. had previously considered but did not approve broader regulations on money market mutual funds put forward in 2012 by Mary L. Schapiro, then the agency’s chief.
As I wrote last week in discussing the Lehman bankruptcy, the problems at the money markets were not anticipated — indeed, these funds were widely seen as safe by investors and policy makers alike. This probably made the impact of problems in the industry that much more profound a blow to already-fragile market confidence. If the Reserve Primary Fund was not safe, the thinking went, then perhaps nothing could be trusted.
Some $2.5 trillion was held in money market mutual funds as of the end of March 2013, according to the Federal Reserve’s flow of funds statistics, with about $1.1 trillion of this belonging to households. These funds remain a crucial component of short-term credit markets, relied on by both businesses and families. Future problems in the industry would doubtless warrant another intervention that puts taxpayers and the broader economy at risk – and the fact that taxpayers made money on the interventions five years ago does not change the reality that the problems in money market mutual funds greatly compounded an already difficult situation in financial markets following the Lehman bankruptcy.
Ensuring that the government is not again required to stabilize money market mutual funds thus remains a vital priority for regulatory policy and crucial unfinished business from the financial crisis.
Despite a near uniform consensus on Wall Street that the Federal Reserve would start to withdraw its economic stimulus this month, the central bank surprised strategists by announcing Wednesday afternoon that it would indefinitely maintain its bond-buying program at full strength.
Stocks jumped after the 2 p.m. statement from the Fed, and the 10-year Treasury yield, an important benchmark for consumer borrowing rates, fell.
In Surprise, Fed Decides Not to Curtail Stimulus Effort
While the continuation of the stimulus program helps stock investors, the Fed’s apparent change of heart sowed confusion that is likely to last far beyond Wednesday in markets around the world. Many on Wall Street were left wondering how they got it so wrong, with several pointing an accusing finger at Mr. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, and the central bank’s communication strategy.
For his part, Mr. Bernanke appeared to put some of the blame on Wall Street.
“The Fed and the market have not been on the same page, and that’s very apparent in what happened at 2:01 p.m.,” said Michael Hanson, senior United States economist at Bank of America, and one of the few strategists to have predicted that the Fed would stand pat on its bond buying.
Since May, when Mr. Bernanke first signaled that the Fed could start to wind down its efforts to stimulate borrowing and the economic growth, Wall Street has been preoccupied with predicting when and by what degree that would happen. At its June meeting, Fed policy makers said that the economy was nearly strong enough to begin doing without the full force of the stimulus program.
As a result, investors around the world spent much of the summer adjusting to the idea that the Fed would begin a retreat from its monthly buying of $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.
Figuring out what would come next involved navigating in uncharted territory: the breadth and scale of the steps taken by the central bank to get the economy back on its feet in the wake of the financial crisis have been without precedent. The bond-buying programs have helped push up stock prices and kept interest rates low, making it easier for borrowers to take out home and auto loans.
The expectation that those programs would soon start to ease has caused interest rates to rise, which has hurt many emerging market economies that had come to rely on lower rates.
The recent preparations paved the way for the mixture of confusion and euphoria that broke out on Wednesday afternoon.
“In one line: Delay is good policy, the communications strategy is in pieces,” Ian Shepherdson, chief economist of Pantheon Macroeconomics, wrote in a note on Wednesday.
The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index jumped 20.76 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 1,725.52. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 147.21 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 15,676.94. Both indexes reached record nominal closing highs.
The Nasdaq composite index gained 37.94 points, or 1 percent, to 3,783.64, its highest close since late September 2000, when the dot-com boom was fading.
Movements in the bond markets were much more extreme. The price of the Treasury’s 10-year note jumped 1 11/32, to 98 11/32, while its yield dropped to 2.69 percent, from 2.85 percent late Tuesday.
Investors also bought mortgage bonds, paving the way for a reversal in the recent rise in mortgage rates. This helped bolster the shares of home builders like KB Home, which soared 8.2 percent, and DR Horton, up 6.9 percent.
Gold prices rose more than 4 percent.
On Wednesday, Mr. Bernanke still suggested that a pullback could begin later this year, but he said that Fed officials had determined that the economy was not on strong enough footing to begin adjusting its stimulus programs this month.
In his news conference after the Fed’s statement, Mr. Bernanke appeared to acknowledge that the central bank had gone against the expectations of the market. Mr. Bernanke said that part of the problem was the sheer complexity of the stimulus programs, which made it hard to predict future policy.
“We are dealing with tools that are less familiar and harder to communicate about,” he said.
But Mr. Bernanke suggested that some investors were not paying sufficient attention, pointing to his past promises not to change policy until economic data, and particularly unemployment numbers, showed significant improvement.
”Asset purchases are not on a preset course,” he said with audible frustration. “They’ve always been conditional on the data.”
On Wall Street, there were many competing theories about why the Fed had defied expectations.
Michael Gapen, the chief United States economist at Barclays, said on Wednesday that he believed the Fed had purposely misled investors to push up interest rates and knock out speculation in risky financial products.
Mr. Bernanke gave some fuel to this argument when he said on Wednesday that he had been gratified to see the sell-off over the summer in more speculative products like junk bonds. But he also said that he was unhappy with the broader rise in interest rates, which had pushed up prices for mortgages and other consumer loans.
Most economists said on Wednesday that the disconnect between the Fed and Wall Street was more likely a result of unintentional flaws in the Fed’s analysis and communications.
Paul Ashworth, the chief United States economist at Capital Economics, said that recent speeches by Fed officials had displayed a significant amount of disagreement at the central bank about how to move forward.
But Mr. Ashworth said that even if there was division within the Fed, Mr. Bernanke and the other officials could have been more clear about what economic indicators they were looking at to make their decisions.
Eric Green, the global head of research at TD Securities, said that for the Fed “it’s tough for them not to lose credibility on this.”
Mr. Hanson, one of the few strategists to have predicted the Fed’s decision, said that at least some of the fault lay in Wall Street’s inability to hear the nuance in Mr. Bernanke’s past statements, and to leave open the possibility that Fed officials could change their mind.
Bill de Blasio’s path to the Democratic nomination for mayor was built in large part around his theme that New York has become a tale of two cities. New data being released on Thursday by the Census Bureau lend support to that argument, showing that even as the recession has ended, the city’s poverty rate continues to inch up and the gap between the rich and poor remains stubbornly large.
Issues
“We should not be giving tax breaks to build luxury condos. Period.”
Bill de Blasio, Democrat
“It’s not good news,” said David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society, a research and advocacy group. “We’re three years into a recovery and the poverty rate is creeping upward. I don’t think this has to mean an all-out call for class warfare, but it’s a serious threat to the viability of the city of New York.
Mr. de Blasio, who has attracted populist support with his message of economic inequality, said the latest census data reinforced the need for the next mayor to alter course. “I wish it didn’t,” he said.
“There is no question that people are suffering in this economy,” Mr. Lhota said. “The key to lifting people out of poverty is through the creation of career jobs and education.” He said he would focus on diversifying the economy and creating additional affordable housing “to ensure more people make it into the middle class.”
The poverty rate rose to 21.2 percent in 2012, from 20.9 percent the year before, meaning that 1.7 million New Yorkers fell below the official federal poverty threshold. That increase was not statistically significant, but the rise from the 2010 rate of 20.1 percent was.
Despite such a gloomy picture, Bloomberg administration officials said the city was faring better than others.
“The national recession increased poverty rates across the country, but other major cities saw their poverty rates increase by more than what we have seen in New York City, largely because we’ve been a national leader in creating jobs and breaking the cycle of poverty,” Linda I. Gibbs, the deputy mayor for health and human services, said. “In 2012, the increase in poverty that resulted from the national recession leveled off, but there remains an enormous amount of work to do to connect those struggling to new jobs and opportunities.”
Since 2000, she said, the city has gone to 13th highest from 6th highest among poverty rates for the 20 biggest cities.
The census data did contain some other good news.
In the city, median household income inched up to $50,895, from $50,657, after declining for three years from its recent high of $54,695 in 2008. And 6 of the nation’s 10 largest cities had higher poverty rates, although 4 recorded declines compared with 2011. On average, New York had a lower poverty rate, fewer people without health insurance and a higher median household income than other major metropolitan areas.
A deeper look at the poverty rate showed that it varied widely and predictably. It was higher among black and Hispanic New Yorkers. Among children 17 and younger, 31 percent fell below the poverty line. So did 32 percent of families headed by a single mother, and 19 percent of New Yorkers ages 65 and over.
Fourteen percent had no health insurance, including 4 percent of children under 18. Fifty percent of homeowners with mortgages and 54 percent of renters spent 30 percent or more of their income on housing. The share receiving food stamps rose to 21 percent, from 20.6 percent.
Jilly Stephens, executive director of City Harvest, a food rescue organization, said, “The food insecure population of New York City remains immune from economic growth, and it is alarming that nearly two million New Yorkers could see their food stamp benefits cut in the coming weeks — which will make it even harder to put food on the table.” Ms. Stephens was referring to a battle inover a farm bill, which some conservatives say must reduce spending on food stamps.

Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, said some of the increase in food stamp recipients could be attributed to government policies, like shortening application forms and no longer requiring finger imaging. Still, he said, one million New Yorkers on Medicaid are not getting food stamps and “a large number would be eligible.”

A yawning income gap seemed to show a city that has become stratified with wealth concentrated in a small percentage of the population.

Citywide, the mean income of the lowest fifth was $8,993, while the highest fifth made $222,871 and the top 5 percent made $436,931 — about 49 times as much as those with the lowest income.
Manhattan retained the dubious distinction of having the biggest income gap of any big county in the country. The mean income of the lowest fifth was $9,635, compared with $389,007 for the top fifth and $799,969 for the top 5 percent — more than an eightyfold difference between bottom and top.
Kushal Pal Singh
Sabeer Bhatia
Dr. Vijay Mallya
Vinod Khosla
Yusuf Khwaja Hamied
Mukesh Ambani
Baba N. Kalyani
Naresh Goyal
Adi Godrej
Uday Kotak
Vikrant Bhargava
Dilip Shanghvi
Venugopal Dhoot
Rahul Bajaj
Subhash Chandra
Ajay Piramal

#1$72.7
Billion
Bill Gates
Bill Gates net worth: Bill Gates is an American business magnate, chairman of Microsoft, philanthropist and author who has a net worth of $72.7 billion.
#2$66.8
Billion
Carlos Slim Helu
Carlos Slim Helu net worth: Carlos Slim Helu is a Mexican billionaire who has a net worth of $66.8 billion. Carlos Slim Helu was born January
#3$60
Billion
Warren Buffett
Warren Buffett net worth: Warren Buffett is one of the richest people in the world who has a net worth of $60 billion. Warren Buffett is arguably the most famous
#4$57
Billion
Amancio Ortega Gaona
Amancio Ortega net worth: Amancio Ortega Gaona is a Spanish fashion executive and entrepreneur who has a net worth of $57 billion. Amancio Ortega has accumulated
#5$53
Billion
Ingvar Kamprad
Ingvar Kamprad net worth: Ingvar Kamprad is a Swedish businessman who founded IKEA and has a net worth of $53 billion dollars. Ingvar Kamprad was born
#6$45.6
Billion
David Koch
David Koch net worth: David Koch is a chemical engineer, political activist, businessman, and philanthropist who has a net worth of $45.6 billion. David Koch
#7$45.6
Billion
Charles Koch
Charles Koch net worth: Charles Koch is an American business magnate who has a net worth of $45.6 billion. Charles Koch (pronounced "coke") is a political
#8$41
Billion
Larry Ellison
What is Larry Ellison's net worth? Larry Ellison's net worth makes him the seventh richest person in the world and the third richest person in the world. Ellison is the founder/CEO of Oracle and has a net worth of...
#9$38
Billion
Christy Walton
Christy Walton net worth: Christy Walton is an American billionaire who is the richest woman in the world and has a net worth of $38 billion. Christy Walton was the wife
#10$36.6
Billion
Jim Walton
Jim Walton is an heir to the Walmart fortune with an estimated net worth of $36.6 billion dollars. Jim Walton is the youngest son of Wal-Mart founder Sam Walton.
#11$35.6
Billion
S Robson Walton
S Robson Walton net worth: S. Robson Walton is an heir to the Wal-Mart fortune with an estimated net worth of $35.6 billion dollars. S. Robson Walton is the
#12$35
Billion
Alice Walton
Alice Walton net worth: Alice Walton is the daughter of Walmart founder Sam Walton, who has a net worth of $35 billion. Alice Walton is a board
#13$32.4
Billion
Liliane Bettencourt
Liliane Bettencourt net worth: Liliane Bettencourt is a Paris born businesswoman, philanthropist, heiress, and socialite who has a net worth of $32.4 billion dollars.
#14$30
Billion
Li Ka-shing
Li Ka-shing net worth: Li Ka-shing is a Hong Kong-born businessman and Chairman of Hutchison Whampoa Limited and Cheung Kong Holdings, who has a net worth
#15$29
Billion
Bernard Arnault
Bernard Arnault net worth: Bernard Arnault is a French billionaire who has a net worth of $29 billion dollars. At $29 billion, Arnault's
#16$28
Billion
Jeff Bezos
Jeff Bezos is the founder, chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board of Amazon.com, who has a net worth of $28 billion dollars.
#17$28
Billion
Stefan Persson
Stefan Persson net worth: Stefan Persson is a Swedish business magnate who has a net worth of $28 billion dollars. Stefan Persson has accumulated
#18$27.4
Billion
Sheldon Adelson
Sheldon Adelson net worth: Sheldon Adelson is an American billionaire businessman who has a net worth of $27.4 billion dollars. Sheldon Adelson
#19$26.9
Billion
Karl Albrecht
Karl Albrecht net worth: Karl Albrecht is a reclusive German billionaire tycoon who has a net worth of $26.9 billion dollars. Karl Albrecht is the richest man in Germany
#20$25.9
Billion
Larry Page
Larry Page net worth: Larry Page is the CEO and co-founder of Google who has a net worth of $25.9 billion dollars. With partner, Sergey Brin, Larry Page
#21$25.8
Billion
David Thomson
David Thomson net worth: David Thomson, the 3rd Baron Thomson of Fleet, is the Chairman of the Thomson Reuters corporation who has a net worth
#22$25.5
Billion
Sergey Brin
Sergey Brin net worth: Sergey Brin is a Soviet-born American computer scientist and co-founder of Google who has a net worth is $25.5 billion. Brin
#23$24.8
Billion
Michele Ferrero
Michele Ferrero Net Worth: Michele Ferrero is an Italian businessman who has a net worth of $24.8 billion dollars, making him the richest man in Italy. Michele Ferrero
#24$24.8
Billion
Dieter Schwarz
Dieter Schwarz net worth: Dieter Schwarz is a German entrepreneur who has a net worth of $24.8 billion dollars. Dieter Schwarz was born in
#25$24
Billion
Lee Shau Kee
Lee Shau-kee was born in Shunde, Guangdong, China is a property developer and majority owner of Henderson Land Development. Lee Shau Kee has a net worth of $24 billion.
#26$23
Billion
George Soros
George Soros net worth: George Soros is a Hungarian-American businessman, philanthropist, stock investor, currency speculator, and social activist, who has a net worth
#27$21.7
Billion
Forrest Mars Jr
Forrest Mars, Jr net worth: Forrest Mars, Jr. is the eldest son of Forrest Mars Sr. and grandson of Frank C. Mars, founders of the American candy
#28$21
Billion
John Mars
John Mars net worth: John Mars is a Wyoming-based businessman who has a net worth of $21 billion dollars. The son and grandson
#29$21
Billion
Jacqueline Mars
Jacqueline Mars net worth: Jacqueline Mars is a businesswoman who has a net worth of $21 billion. Jacqueline Mars is the daughter of
#30$20.9
Billion
Jorge Paulo Lemann
Jorge Paulo Lemann net worth: Jorge Paulo Lemann is a Brazilian businessman who has a net worth of $20.9 billion. Jorge Paulo Lemann has been listed as one of the richest
#31$20.5
Billion
Aliko Dangote
Aliko Dangote net worth: Aliko Dangote is a Nigerian Businessman who has a net worth of $20.5 billion. Aliko Dangote earned his net worth by founding
#32$20.4
Billion
Alisher Usmanov
Alisher Usmanov net worth: Alisher Usmanov is an Uzbek-born Russian businessman who has a net worth of $20.4 billion. Alisher Usmanov has earned his net worth
#33$20
Billion
Sir Evelyn De Rothschild
Sir Evelyn De Rothschild is a British financier with a net worth of $20 billion. Sir Evelyn De Rothschild acquired that wealth as a
#34$20
Billion
Thomas & Raymond Kwok
Thomas & Raymond Kwok net worth: Thomas & Raymond Kwok are Chinese property tycoons who have a net worth of $20 billion. Thomas Kwok is the founder
#35$19.8
Billion
Mark Zuckerberg
Mark Zuckerberg net worth: Mark Zuckerberg's net worth comes from his 28.1% equity stake in the company he founded Facebook. Mark Zuckerberg's salary is $1 per year.
#36$19
Billion
Carl Icahn
Carl Icahn net worth: Carl Icahn is a businessman, financier and company chairman who has a net worth of $19 billion. Carl Icahn earned his net worth
#37$18.9
Billion
Gina Rinehart
Gina Rinehart net worth: Gina Rinehart is an billionaire Australian mining heiress who has a net worth of $18.9 billion. Gina Rinehart
#38$18.9
Billion
Leonardo Del Vecchio
Leonardo Del Vecchio net worth: Leonardo Del Vecchio is an Italian businessman who has a net worth of $18.9 billion. Leonardo Del Vecchio is the founder
#39$18.8
Billion
Theo Albrecht
Theo Albrecht was a German businessman and co-founder of the Aldi grocery store chain with an estimated net worth of $18.8 billion dollars.
#40$18.5
Billion
Mukesh Ambani
Mukesh Ambani net worth: Mukesh Ambani is an Indian billionaire businessman chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries, who has a net worth of $18.5 billion. Mukesh Ambani
#41$18.2
Billion
Alberto Bailleres
Alberto Bailleres is a Mexican Billionaire and the owner of Grupo Bal who has a net worth of $18.2 billion. Alberto Bailleres
#42$17.7
Billion
Cheng Yu-tung
Cheng Yu-tung net worth: Cheng Yu-tung is an Asian businessman who has a net worth of $17.7 billion. That net worth makes him one of the richest
#43$17.4
Billion
Iris Fontbona
Iris Fontbona is a Chilean businesswoman with a net worth of $17.4 billion. Iris Fontbona acquired that wealth by marrying Andronico Luksic, who built
#44$17.3
Billion
Francois Pinault
Francois Pinault net worth: Francois Pinault is a French luxury goods mogul who has a net worth of $17.3 billion. Francois Pinault is the founder
#45$17.2
Billion
Luis Carlos Sarmiento
Luis Carlos Sarmiento net worth: Luis Carlos Sarmiento is the richest person in Colombia with a net worth of $17.2 billion. Luis Carlos Sarmiento
#46$17
Billion
Azim Premji
Azim Premji was born in British India and has an estimated net worth of $17 billion dollars. A businessman, Azim Premji is the
#47$16.8
Billion
Phil Knight
Phil Knight net worth: Phil Knight is the chairman and co-founder of Nike Inc, who has a net worth of $16.8 billion. Phil Knight got his start
#48$16.7
Billion
German Larrea Mota Velasco
German Larrea Mota Velasco net worth: German Larrea Mota Velasco is a Mexican businessman who has a net worth of $16.7 billion. German Larrea Mota Velasco
#49$16.7
Billion
Leonid Mikhelson
Leonid Mikhelson net worth: Leonid Mikhelson has net worth of $16.7 billion dollars which makes him one of the richest people in Russia. Leonid Mikhelson
#50$16.5
Billion
Mikhail Fridman
Mikhail Fridman net worth: Mikhail Fridman is a Russian businessman who has a net worth of $16.5 billion. Mikhail Fridman has obtained his net worth
1) Mukesh Ambani ($22,600) – Reliance Group

Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani is an Indian business magnate who is the chairman and CEO of the Indian conglomerate Reliance Industries Limited, the foremost company of the Indian energy and materials conglomerate Reliance Group.

(2) Lakshmi Mittal ($19,200) ArcelorMittal

Lakshmi Niwas Mittal is an English based Indian steel magnate. He is the chairman and CEO of ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaking company

(3) Azim Premji ($13,000) – Wipro

Azim Hashim Premji is an Indian business tycoon and philanthropist who is the chairman of Wipro Limited, guiding the company through four decades of diversification and growth to emerge as one of the Indian leaders in the software industry.

(4) Shashi Ruia and Ravi Ruia ($10,200) Vodafone-Essar

The brothers, Shashi and Ravi Ruia, sold their one-third stake in telecom unit Vodafone Essar for $5.4 billion in July, 2011 after their plan for listing the holding was opposed by Vodafone.

(5) Savitri Jindal ($9,500) – Jindal Group

Savitri Jindal is an Indian steel baroness, the wealthiest woman in India and the world’s 80th richest person. She is the non-executive chairperson of O.P. Jindal Group

(6) Sunil Mittal ($8,800) – Bharti Enterprises

Sunil Bharti Mittal is an Indian telecom mogul, philanthropist and the founder, chairman and Group CEO of Bharti Enterprises

(7) Gautam Adani ($8,200) – Adani Group

Gautam Adani is an Indian entrepreneur and self-made billionaire who is the Chairman of Adani Group.

(8) Kumar Mangalam Birla ($7,700) – Aditya Birla Group

Kumar Mangalam Birla is an Indian industrialist and the Chairman of the Aditya Birla Group, one of the largest conglomerate corporations in India.

(9) Pallonji Mistry ($7,600) - Shapoorji Pallonji Group

Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry is an Irish construction tycoon and chairman of Shapoorji Pallonji Group. According to Forbes, his wealth is estimated to be US$9.7 billion as of 2012

(10) Adi Godrej ($6,800) – Godrej Group

Adi Godrej is Chairman designate for the Godrej Group and several entities that are part of one of India’s leading conglomerates.

n some respects, 1988 has the feel of an alien, distant era. There was no such thing as the World Wide Web then. The Soviet Union was still around; the Berlin Wall still standing. Americans elected a Republican president who would raise taxes to help tame the budget deficit.
Multimedia
 
Graphic
Standing Still?
 
Economic Scene
Eduardo Porter writes the Economic Scene column for the Wednesday Business section.
Author Bio »
Past Columns »
On Tuesday, however, the Census Bureau reminded me how for most Americans 1988 still looks a lot like yesterday: last year, the typical household made $51,017, roughly the same as the typical household made a quarter of a century ago.

The statistic is staggering — hardly what one would expect from one of the richest and most technologically advanced nations on the planet.

I have written several times before about how measures of social and economic well-being in the United States have slipped compared to other advanced countries. But it is even more poignant to recognize that, in many ways, America has been standing still for a full generation.

It made me wonder what happened to progress.

Consider: 36 years ago this month, when NASA launched the Voyager 1 probe into space, 11.6 percent of Americans were officially considered poor. The other day Voyager sailed clear out of the solar system into interstellar space — the first man-made object to do so — recording its environment on an 8-track deck.

Using the same official metric — which actually undercounts the poor compared to new methods used by the Census today — the poverty rate is 15 percent.

To be sure, we have made progress over the last 25 years. The nation’s gross domestic product per person has increased 40 percent since 1988. We’ve gained four years’ worth of life expectancy at birth. The infant mortality rate has plummeted by 50 percent. More women and more men are entering and graduating from college.

We also have access to far more sophisticated consumer goods, from the iPhone to cars packed with digital devices. And the cost of many basic staples, notably food, has fallen significantly.

Carl Shapiro, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley and an expert on technology and innovation who stepped down from President Obama’s Council on Economic Advisors last year, calls the progress in information technology and biotechnology over the last 25 years “breathtaking.”

“Most Americans partake in the benefits offered by these new technologies, from smartphones to better dental care,” Professor Shapiro said. Still, he acknowledged, “somehow this impressive progress has not translated into greater economic security for the American middle class.”

In key respects, in fact, the standard of living of most Americans has fallen decidedly behind. Just take the cost of medical services. Health care spending per person, adjusted for inflation, has roughly doubled since 1988, to about $8,500 — pushing up health insurance premiums and eating into workers’ wages.

The cost of going to college has been rising faster than inflation as well. About two-thirds of people with bachelor’s degrees relied on loans to get through college, up from 45 percent two decades ago. Average student debt in 2011 was $23,300.

In contrast to people in other developed nations, who have devoted more time to leisure as they have gotten richer, Americans work about as much as they did a quarter-century ago. Despite all this toil, the net worth of the typical American family in the middle of the income distribution fell to $66,000 in 2010 — 6 percent less than in 1989 after inflation.

Though the bursting of the housing bubble and ensuing great recession takes a big share of the blame for families’ weakening finances, it is nonetheless startling that a single financial event — only a hiccup on the road to prosperity of Americans on the top of the pile — could erase a generation worth of progress for those in the middle.
Though the statistics may be startling, the story they tell is, unfortunately, not surprising. It is the story of America’s new normal. In the new normal the share of the nation’s income channeled to corporate profits is higher than at any time since the 1920s, while workers’ share languishes at its lowest since 1965.
In the new normal, the real wages of workers on the factory floor are lower than they were in the early ’70s. And the richest 10 percent of Americans get over half of the income America produces.
“Almost all of the benefits of growth since the trough of the Great Recession have been going to those in the upper classes,” said Timothy Smeeding, who heads the Institute for Research on Poverty at the University of Madison-Wisconsin. “Middle- and lower-income families are getting a smaller slice of a smaller economic pie as labor markets have changed drastically during our recovery.”
In 2010, the Department of Commerce published a study about what it would take for different types of families to achieve the aspirations of the middle class — which it defined as a house, a car or two in the garage, a vacation now and then, decent health care and enough savings to retire and contribute to the children’s college education.
It concluded that the middle class has become a much more exclusive club. Even two-earner families making almost $81,000 in 2008 — substantially more than the family median of about $60,000 reported by the Census — would have a much tougher time acquiring the attributes of the middle class than in 1990.
The incomes of these types of families actually rose by a fifth between 1990 and 2008, according to the report. They were more educated and worked more hours, on average, and had children at a later age. Still, that was no match for the 56 percent jump in the cost of housing, the 155 percent leap in out-of-pocket spending on health care and the double-digit increase in the cost of college.
So either we define the middle class down a couple of notches or we acknowledge that the middle class isn’t in the middle anymore.
BOHNNE JONES had always dreamed of being an architect or interior designer. Suzie Ford wanted to know if the home-brewed beer her husband, Todd, made was as good as people said it was, while Jan Morris figured owning a distillery would be more fun than being a divorce lawyer.
Your Money Guides

401(k)'s and Similar Plans »

They had three very different dreams, but these women had one thing in common: they all lost jobs and decided to use sizable retirement accounts to start their own businesses in very different fields. They did so by converting traditional 401(k) accounts into new retirement plans — known as “rollovers as business start-ups,” or ROBS — that they could invest in their companies.

“It’s fueled by the fact that stock market has returned to all-time highs, real estate is up, consumer confidence is up — but we’re also suffering from a credit crisis, and unemployment remains high,” said David Nilssen, chief executive of Guidant Financial, which specializes in helping people use 401(k) assets to invest in businesses or other nontraditional assets, like property. “People look at this because they can capitalize a business without taking on any debt.”
While this may sound like an easy solution to finance a company, it is incredibly complicated, and the risks of running afoul of the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Labor, which has jurisdiction over 401(k) plans, are significant. The worst possible outcome is a triple-whammy loss of a person’s retirement savings, the business and a source of income if the idea fails.
Adding to the complications, ROBS exist in a parallel financial universe, where those who promote the plans see them as solutions for retirement-rich but cash-poor entrepreneurs, while many other financial advisers see the plans as treading the line of legality.
“The I.R.S. has said that they don’t view them as tax-avoidance schemes per se,” said Carol J. Ventura, retirement specialist at H.D. Vest, a broker-dealer with $33 billion under management. “They’re not illegal, but the I.R.S. is saying that they have to be perfectly put in place. They’re very complicated.”
Failure to do everything right could lead to anything from penalties to having the entire retirement plan disallowed, which would mean a big tax bill.
Still, Mr. Nilssen said the idea had been gaining in popularity. He said his company had its best year in 2012 with 1,300 new ROBS and expects to do 1,700 this year. I wanted to know what the attraction was to something that seemed so complicated and magnified the sizable risk of starting any business.
Here’s how ROBS work: People take their 401(k) account (or other qualified retirement plan) and roll it over into a new plan that buys shares in an operating company that will own their business. Unlike most small businesses, which are set up as limited liability corporations or S-corporations, a business financed through ROBS has to be a C-corporation, which can issue shares and does not prohibit ownership by trusts.
In many cases, people turn to ROBS because they don’t have other sources of financing and have not been able to secure a small-business loan.The companies of the people I spoke to were owned by anywhere from 90 percent of one person’s 401(k) to 100 percent of two entire plans.
That might sound simple, but what effectively happens is that the plan, not the person, owns the business. That means the person cannot act in his best interest but must act in the best interest of the plan. For example, if he wants to give himself a raise, he needs to find out what similar business owners make.
“I have counseled people on how to do them correctly and then I typically say, ‘I find it to be a bad idea and you’re probably going to get yourself in trouble,’ ” said Bill Smith, a tax lawyer and managing director in the CBIZ National Tax Office. “The I.R.S. is not consistent on what it considers correct. It’s very easy to mess these things up.”
Mr. Nilssen said Guidant helped people set up the initial plan and managed the reporting requirements. He said that of his firm’s 8,500 clients, about 50 had been audited, but none had had action taken against them.
Ms. Jones said that in the course of putting $260,000 of the $340,000 she had in her retirement account into buying a Decorating Den franchise in Nashville, she had several lean years during the recession, but that she is now doing well. She says she is also happier than when she was working in health care technology.
But she said the paperwork to comply with the I.R.S. rules could be complicated — and managing paperwork was part of her previous career. One requirement of these plans is that she and any employees pay into the 401(k) set up to buy the company. “That check has to be out the door seven days after payroll,” she said. “If I’m late at writing a check to deposit my 401(k) money, there are penalties, and I’ve paid penalties.”
Laura Hemphill explains why women should skip business school: “The uncomfortable truth is that women in business are more likely than men to drop out of the workforce or have their careers interrupted a decade after earning their M.B.A.s, because of family considerations. Given this possibility, isn’t the most important thing for a woman to work as hard as she can and advance as far as possible while she’s still in her twenties and her life is as uncomplicated as it’s going to get? That way, by the time she’s a decade or so along, she’ll have more savings, more job experience, and more bargaining power — all of which translate into more options.”
Jonathan Chait makes the case that “Obamacare” is working: “Through a thousand tiny nudges, the law has transformed the entire medical field from one that encouraged more, and more expensive, care with no regard for outcome into one geared toward paying for quality.”
Economy
A robust recovery for the global economy remains out of reach, according to a survey of economists taken just as the Federal Reserve is expected to reduce its stimulus for the American economy.
An investment firm warns of a dim future for the coal industry and exports.
Consumer prices went up 0.1 percent in August.
The typical American family makes less than it did in 1989.
Employees
A new survey finds only 11 percent of American workers possess the attributes that lead to accelerated learning and performance improvement: “To address perpetually mounting competitive pressures, organizations need workers who bring passion to their jobs to navigate challenges and accelerate performance improvement.”
Workers at small companies pay three times more in fees on a retirement account than workers at larger companies, according to a Bankrate.com analysis that also found that, over a period of 35 years, even a small difference in fees can drastically reduce savings.
Cash Flow
Business travelers can expect to pay as much as 6 percent more for hotel rooms next year.
Here’s how to make $100 a day on eBay.
Penthouse’s publisher files for bankruptcy.
Customer Service
Adrian Swinscoe shares a story about the benefits of proactive customer service.
Apple takes pity on several iPhone fans who were waiting outside its Tokyo store, letting them rest in the store’s theater as a typhoon soaked the city.
Around the World
Britain’s small-business confidence jumps as hiring prospects brighten.
Even though the global shipbuilding business is struggling, Krishnadev Calamur says there’s a glimmer of hope: “Global shipping freight rates rose last week to their highest level in more than 18 months. The measure, known as the Baltic Dry Index, is seen as a key indicator of global economic growth. The index tracks how much it costs for ships to carry dry-bulk commodities such as iron ore and coal.”
The Costa Concordia gets righted.
Health Care
New health information security regulations begin Monday, and here’s how to get your business ready.
Taxes
Individuals and small businesses are set to lose a slew of tax breaks at the end of the year — including deductions for mortgage insurance, educator’s expenses, tuition, energy efficiency, and business property.
Technology
It can be challenging for Willan Johnson to know how many people to employ at his pool-cleaning business, VivoPools, in Los Angeles, for a number of reasons.
YOU'RE THE BOSS
 
How Do You Decide When to Add New Employees?
In the recession’s aftermath, many small-business owners are wary of hiring too fast.
 Post a Comment
First, he needs more people in the warmer months. He also has to consider where his jobs are and how long it will take his workers to drive from one job to another. Some jobs take longer than others, because vacuuming and scrubbing take more time than chemical treatments. Plus, he said, “Everyone wants their residential pool service on Friday.”

Of course, like most business owners, Mr. Johnson always wants to avoid having too many people and not enough work.

“Determining when and how many employees to hire is a bit tricky for our business as the demand for services varies based on account growth, seasonality, geography of homeowner addresses and customer requests,” said Mr. Johnson, who started the company four years ago.

Many small-business owners remain skittish about hiring. The National Federation of Independent Business reported that nearly 80 percent of small, private companies made no hiring changes in July and 12 percent let workers go.

Especially after the recession, many owners have been reluctant to spend the money to hire workers, especially if there’s a chance demand will recede and the workers will have to be laid off. The on-again, off-again recovery hasn’t helped. And with small businesses representing 49.2 percent of private sector employment, according to the Small Business Administration, this reluctance has inevitably had an impact on unemployment rates.

Some owners have turned to paying overtime, which makes it easier to scale back if demand slips. The downside is that it can be expensive and it can lead to an overworked staff.

For example, the work force at Narragansett Creamery in Providence, R.I., has grown slowly even as more customers are drawn to the company’s homemade yogurt and cheeses, said Mark Federico, the owner. Started in 2007, the company has grown to a staff of 30.

“We found that if we worked too many hours for too long a period of time, people get burned out,” Mr. Federico said. “People need days off. It’s not scientific, and we’re not right all the time.”

Based on the experiences of owners like Mr. Johnson and Mr. Federico, this small-business guide looks how owners determine when it’s time to hire.

HOURS WORKED Mr. Johnson said he ran his employment numbers weekly, as clients were added and lost, to ensure he had enough people. He uses a spreadsheet to help him decide when the company can support the wages of new employees.
He keeps careful count of the number of pools the company cleans and the hours required for each job. He separates residential jobs, which typically require 30 minutes of time, from those at commercial pools, which can take two hours.
To calculate the required number of employees, Mr. Johnson estimates the number of hours required to clean all client pools and divides that by a standard 40-hour workweek. When the result is greater than the number of employees on staff, he makes a new hire.
THE PAYROLL PERCENTAGE Earlier this year, when there was a surge in demand for swimming lessons at SwimLabs, in Highlands Ranch, Colo., Michael Mann was taken by surprise. Suddenly, the 15 full-time employees he keeps during the off-season — as opposed to 25 or more during spring and summer — were not enough.
Opened in 2006, SwimLabs offers one-on-one lessons to children and adults. All students are videotaped and analyzed as they take their strokes in small pools equipped with water jets.
The company saw the same surge in business after the 2012 Summer Olympics.
“The Olympics always elevates the sport,” said Mr. Mann, who holds several masters swimming records. His business got an extra boost because the four-time gold medalist Missy Franklin lived nearby.
To decide how many instructors he needed to hire, Mr. Mann looked at monthly gross earnings and calculated that the payroll should consume a maximum of 25 percent of his operating costs. If he generates an additional $10,000 a month in revenue, he knows he can afford another instructor who is paid $2,500 a month. As a result, Mr. Mann started hunting for two more part-time instructors.
CALL VOLUME Growth can be deceptive. Sometimes, efficiencies may keep three times as many customers from meaning three times as much work. That is a lesson learned by Hudl, a company in Lincoln, Neb., that builds video analysis tools for coaches in 20 different sports, allowing them to break down plays and share them with their players.
via @AccountancyAge Petroleum business recruits new finance director:  Rachael Singh   Hedge ... http://bit.ly/1bKUcSJ  #audit #business
ISBPL: #NEWS Provisional: Sensex ends down 184 pts: Investors cautious stance ahead of June-quarter ... http://bit.ly/16OhgJp  #business
Here's how to leave your excuses to the dust http://goo.gl/UhqWi  #business #networkmarketing
Faith in euro zone economy hits two-year high in September  via @josephjett #business http://bit.ly/1777K7C 
Business Phone Service - 1st Month Free - #Virtual Office - #Toll #Free Number - http://www.CellPhone-Plans.net  - #Business #Phone Line
The Hottest Teenage Startup Founders http://tldis.it/16sEIl8  #business
The 8 Hottest Teenage Startup Founders In The World Right Now
We've ranked the most impressive teen tech entrepreneurs based on both their circumstances and successes.
Have you a skill that could benefit someone?  If so, why not swap it on
You Might Not Realize How Impressive The Rate Of Layoffs Is Right Now  via @josephjett #business 
NEW - Guide to business start-up loans
In September 2013 the #business  #confidence index increased to 83.3 from 82.0 in August
"Opportunities multiply as they are seized." -Sun Tzu #business #leadership
Being a network marketer has true value to the community
New Business Blog: Extra shot of success for coffee innovator in small business contest 
Inbound marketing is a strategic method for creating #business leads
Asian shares firm, but U.S. budget impasse constrains  via @josephjett #business
Ad Agency Stirs Star Wars Controversy There are as many points of view on the Star Wars  via @josephjett #business
Microsoft to continue investment in global education program, to pour in $250M. #Cebu #business 
Piraeus Bank to list unit Geniki Bank in next six months: FT  via @josephjett #business http://bit.ly/14Nx6Xa 
Softbank CEO Son says 'very supportive' of Alibaba's partnership  via @josephjett #business http://bit.ly/14NrHzn 
It is interesting that todays society values academic credentials, yet is dismissive of 'book of hard knocks'-street smarts. #business
Bank examiner
IT IS hardly controversial to say that Countrywide Financial, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were at the very centre of the financial crisis—Countrywide because it was a leading originator of subprime-mortgage loans, and the two government-sponsored housing-finance giants because they bought vast amounts of these mortgages. All three imploded.
That always made it likely that one or more of the troika would end up as targets for prosecutors. The case that finally kicked off in a lower Manhattan federal court on September 24th had all the elements you would have expected: accusations of greed, fraud and an obsession with extracting profits and sticking others with lossesASK almost any banker in New York or London whether banks can have strong capital ratios and still generate mouthwatering returns for shareholders, and they will probably think you a fool. A doubling of the capital a bank has will, all else being equal, halve the bank’s return on equity (ROE). For most bankers there is an uneasy tension between making banks safer and making them attractive investments. Developments in Sweden, however, suggest it is possible to have both safety and profitability.
On September 24th Sweden sold its remaining 7% stake in Nordea, Scandinavia’s biggest bank, a legacy of the country’s 1990s banking crisis. That crisis—in which Swedish authorities swiftly wrote down bad assets, moved them into a “bad bank” and recapitalised the remaining “good bank”—informed many of the bail-outs in the 2008 financial crisis.
FOR a foreigner at least, it is still a bit of a thrill to use an ATM machine in downtown Yangon. After years of carting around wads of dog-eared dollars to exchange for even larger wads of ancient, crumbling kyat, the local currency, immaculate new machines now disgorge crisp new banknotes. It is a minor miracle. Linked to the international payment system only late last year, hundreds of ATMs around the country can now be used on Visa’s payments system.
The cash machines are a mark of real progress. During decades of brutal and isolating military rule, financial services suffered as much as any other 
GLOOMY headlines predominate in the banking industry. JPMorgan Chase was this month fined nearly $1 billion by regulators in relation to the “London Whale” trading scandal. Barclays and Credit Suisse have already revealed that revenues in their fixed-income sales and trading divisions were poor in the third quarter; Citigroup, Deutsche Bank and others are expected to say something similar. Trading volumes seem to have slumped over the summer as investors contemplated the potential “tapering” of bond purchases by the Federal Reserve (such inactivity may well continue now that the Fed has delayed its taper).
But trading is only part of the banking business, and banks are only one part of the finance industry. Elsewhere, there is plenty of positive news. Fund managers are looking happier. Inflows into global equity funds reached $26 billion in the week ending September 18th, the highest figure in more than 20 years, according ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>FIVE years ago the world was stumbling into a chasm. Of course the signal fact about the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and the financial and political chaos that followed was that it led to the most significant real-economy disaster of the postwar era. Panic on Wall Street was a wrenching spectacle. Yet the goal of saving the banks and stemming the panic was not, for the most part, preservation of any particular quarter of the finance industry for its own sake. It was to prevent a Depression.In that policymakers enjoyed success only by the miserable comparison of the Great Contraction of the 1930s. Output and employment fell by much less than they did from 1929-1933. For all the economic pain of the global recession things never got bad enough to unravel the institutions of liberalism, to make tyranny and war attractive options. Yet things were bad enough. Global trade collapsed. America lost 5.4m jobs from September of 2008 to April of 2009. The miserably slow pace of recovery (and a second-round recession in Europe) mean that the costs of the crash continue to mount, trillion by trillion, every dollar and euro a symbol of human suffering and lost opportunity. And greater disaster may have been closer than we realised. A different decision here, a different leader there, and the story could have been much darker.But there is good news. From this tragedy we have learned ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>Joe Zhang is Chairman of Guangzhou Wansui Micro Credit Company, and the author of "Inside China's Shadow Banking: The Next Subprime Crisis?".ON A Monday morning three autumns ago, I was at my brother's home in Jingmen City in Hubei Province. There were some gentle knocks at the door. I opened it to see two smiling, well-dressed young officers from the Government Audit Office. They asked to speak with my brother, Hualiang. The officers wanted Hualiang to spend the next few days with them to collect some unpaid debts local companies owed to the then-defunct state-owned lender, Golden Shrimp Credit Union. Hualiang had been the head of the Golden Shrimp Credit Union until the lender went belly up amid mounting bad debts seven years earlier.I was very surprised, and impressed. I had worked at the People's Bank of China, the country’s central bank, in the 1980s, and later at foreign banks for nearly two decades. But I had not known of a place where senior bankers would be held accountable for bad lending decisions seven years after the bank had gone bust. By 2003, most Chinese banks and credit unions had phased in a "Life-time Responsibility System" for senior credit officers, Hualiang explained to me. Later on, I conducted a straw poll with a few banks. Sure enough: they all had some variant of that scheme in place.That was good for the country, though it ruined my plan to spend 
    AS THE dust settles on an extraordinary period of financial tumult, which reached its zenith five years ago this week with the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, two banks vie for the title of the world’s biggest by market capitalisation. One is Wells Fargo, a San Francisco-based institution; the other is China’s state-owned ICBC. It says something about the state of global finance that both are largely domestic, conventional lenders, and that both are buoyed and buffeted by the policies of their respective governments.
Some of Wells’s success is serendipitous. The business model that it has refined since its merger with, and managerial takeover by, Minnesota-based Norwest in 1998 left it perfectly placed to benefit from the crisis and ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>
FOR more than a decade competition regulators have fretted that Britain’s banking oligopoly is ripping off customers, mainly by stinging them with high fees for overdrafts or late payments. Yet the resurrection on September 9th of TSB bank, which traces its roots back to a lender set up in 1810, promises to inject competition into a market that is among the rich world’s most concentrated.
The new TSB bank is being created through a spin-off of 631 branches from Lloyds Banking Group, Britain’s biggest lender when measured by domestic market share. Although TSB is still wholly owned by Lloyds it plans to issue a prospectus early in 2014 with an initial public offering (IPO) to follow in the summer.
The divestment by Lloyds was forced on it by the European Commission after it was bailed out by the British government five years ago in the midst of the financial crisis. Even the IPO was a reluctant choice. ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>
The world of banking has changed dramatically, if not radically, in the five years since September 15th 2008, the day Lehman Brothers went bust. American and European banks used to dominate the list of the world’s biggest banks (see chart 1); the Chinese have since scaled the charts. The balance-sheets of Europe’s behemoths have got quite a bit smaller (chart 2); consolidation has made America’s giants bigger than ever. Western banks are generating much lower returns on equity than they did in the years before the crisis (chart 3), in part because the industry is being forced to fund itself with higher levels of equity than in the past (chart 4). So cost-cutting is much more important than it was: compensation ratios at investment banks have fallen (chart 5). But those who want a complete reshaping of finance can still argue that change has not gone far enough: more people work in finance in London in 2013 than did in December 2007 ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>
WOODY ALLEN once remarked that believing in God would be easier if He would show Himself by making a large deposit in a Swiss bank account in the director’s name. Parking riches in the Alps has become a less heavenly experience in recent years, thanks to America’s assault on its tax-dodging citizens and the moneymen who serve them.
Fearful that other banks could suffer the same fate as Wegelin, a venerable private bank that was indicted in New York in 2012 and put out of business, the Swiss government has been seeking an agreement with America that would allow the industry to pay its way out of trouble in one go. Instead, it has had to make do with one covering banks that are not already under investigation, which excludes some of the country’s biggest institutions.
“CHINA’S banks are not real banks,” says Andrew Rothman of CLSA, a broker recently acquired by China’s CITIC Securities. The country’s biggest financial institutions are so closely held by the state that they are, in effect, arms of the treasury. Cosseted by rules that protect them from competition, they deliver huge profits in good times: bank profits as a share of China’s economic output equalled nearly 3% last year, whereas the highest ratio achieved in recent decades by American banks was only 1% of GDP (in 2006). In bad times the state is there to clean up, just as it did during a surge in dud loans in 1990s.
But the bargain that has driven China’s “Big Four” banks to the top of the global league tables is breaking down. Profitable though they are now, another wave of non-performing loans will soon hit ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>
AT FIRST sight, China seems to have a superb banking system. Its state-controlled banks, among the biggest and most profitable in the world, have negligible levels of non-performing loans and are well capitalised. That appears to suggest that the country’s approach should be applauded.
Not so. For one thing, though China’s banking system is stable, its banks are not as healthy as they seem. The credit binge of recent years has left them with far higher levels of risky loans than they acknowledge. And a profit squeeze is coming. The banks are having to work harder to keep both their biggest depositors, who are tempted by alternative investment products, and their biggest borrowers, who are turning to the bond market instead. As a consequence, the country’s Big Four banks—Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Bank of China, Agricultural Bank of China and China Construction Bank—will no ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>
IN TIMES of drought the great migrating herds on Africa’s plains splinter, the strong pulling ahead and the weak falling behind. So it is for Europe’s banking system. Over the past few years a cross-border banking market has unravelled into a collection of national ones. There has been a massive $2.2 trillion reduction in bank lending across borders within the euro area since 2008. Borrowing costs in peripheral countries have shot up, driven largely by an increase in the interest rates that countries such as Italy and Spain have to pay. The divergence in borrowing costs between German and Spanish firms is close to 1.5 percentage points, compared with just a few basis points (bps), or hundredths of a percentage point, two SELDOM has such scepticism surrounded a merger as when, in the depths of the 2008 financial crisis, Lloyds TSB decided to buy its ailing competitor, HBOS, to create the biggest domestic bank in Britain. Officials worried about financial stability were desperate for a buyer, yet competition regulators were aghast at the creation of a behemoth with 30% of the market for personal accounts. Shareholders, for their part, pummelled Lloyds stock, worried that it was paying too much for a bust bank. Even Alistair Darling, then chancellor, had doubts, writing later in his memoirs how it “was not obvious” that this was “an opportunity” for Lloyds. Mr Darling said he told the then chief executive to be sure the bank “knew ...<div THE search for a new boss for Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), a limping state-owned British lender, was more gruelling than most. For a start, the bank has generally been run by Scots, which somewhat narrows the gene-pool of potential candidates. More importantly, the untidy ouster in June of its current boss, Stephen Hester, complicated things.
FROM Frankfurt to Madrid, Zurich to London, it was a big week for PowerPoint. Executives from Barclays, Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas, Santander and others spent their early mornings wading though slide after slide of second-quarter results for analysts and investors. The jargon was prolific. At Barclays the talk was of creating the “go to” bank and running down “exit quadrant” businesses; at Deutsche bosses affirmed “Strategy 2015+”. Everyone droned on dutifully about cultural change and values, while setting aside ever more billions in litigation-related charges.
Like the economies they serve, the overall picture is a patchwork. Big banks continue to repair their balance-sheets, some at a faster rate than others. Banks have already been increasing their risk-weighted capital ratios; now they also have to cater to renewed regulatory enthusiasm for “leverage ratios”, a blunter measure of the amount of equity that banks ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>
THE euro area’s economic swoon may at last be ending, according to a cluster of recent business surveys. That makes it likely the European Central Bank (ECB) will stay its hand on interest rates on August 1st (after The Economist went to press). But any recovery will be anaemic as long as credit is constricted. The latest lending figures show that banks are as inert as ever.
Uncertainty about what exactly is on banks’ books is one factor holding things back. Without knowing what horrors lurk there, investors worry about whether banks have enough capital to cope with losses. That has a knock-on effect on banks’ funding costs and their willingness to lend. Prior rounds of stress tests have failed to provide reassurance. The hope is that the ECB itself can do ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>IT IS hard not to feel a wave of nostalgia for the news that Barclays is raising £5.8 billion via a rights issue to improve its capital ratio. Back in the 1980s, British banks were well known for paying high dividends, and then getting the money back from shareholders in the form of a rights issue. Indeed, the same thing is happening today as Justin Cooper of Capita Registrars points outTo announce an increase in the dividend for next year at the same time is a contradiction, raising money from shareholders with one hand and paying it straight back to them with the other. However, even though it is more logical to cut the dividend, investors would doubtless punish the bank with an even bigger share price fall.
What is also striking is the contrast with the performance of bank shares (see chart), with that of the salaries of bank executives. The inflection point in bank salaries goes back to the early 1980s and we could only get data for the chart back to 1994. But I suspect the longer-term trend would be the same as the 1980s was marked by the third world debt crisis that damaged so many bank balance sheets. As a humourist once wrote of British filmsIsn't it funny/How they never make any money/When everyone in the racket/Cleans up a packetNow it is true that this chart shows all banks (not investment banks, where salary inflation has been most marked) and that it is also ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>
FROM Frankfurt to Madrid, Zurich to London, it has been a big day for PowerPoint. Bank executives have spent the morning wading though slide after slide of second-quarter results for audiences of analysts and investors. Some of Europe’s biggest banks have reported today: the likes of Barclays, Deutsche, Erste, Santander and UBS have issued figures, massaged disappointments and played up successes. Where profits were thin, the jargon was prolific. At Barclays the talk was of creating the “Go To bank” and running down “Exit Quadrants”; at Deutsche, bosses affirmed their commitment to “Strategy 2015 Plus” and talked about something called “Project Integra”. Everyone droned on dutifully about cultural change and values, while setting aside ever more billions in litigation-related charges.
COMMERZBANK’S marketing materials show a woman running in a grey, hooded jumper, headphones in her ears. Her eyes are locked on the path ahead in determination to finish her workout. This is probably meant to flatter the bank’s customers as gritty and hard-working. But it is a better metaphor for the bank itself. It is on a long, hard road back to health, a journey that exemplifies the painful reshaping of Europe’s troubled banking system to be smaller, safer and more domestic.
Commerzbank’s initial trajectory through the crisis resembles that of another European lender, Britain’s Lloyds Banking Group (LBG). Like LBG, it was a big bank but not the biggest in the country—Deutsche Bank is Germany’s            
NOBODY can accuse the People’s Bank of China (PBOC), China’s central bank, of being gun-shy. A few weeks ago its clumsy attempt to restrain dodgier forms of bank lending led to a bout of market panic. Many said the episode would chill enthusiasm for further experimentation.
But on July 20th the PBOC experimented again. On that day the central bank ended all restrictions on lending rates, which previously had a floor of 70% of the PBOC benchmark rate. Banks are now free to set lending rates (save those for residential mortgages) at any level they want.
In truth, the measure is less bold than it appears. The interest-rate reform that everyone is waiting for is liberalisation of deposit rates. China’s policy of financial repression has capped the rate that banks can pay depositors, even as it put a floor onTHE data are in: crime is falling in the West—and at jaw-dropping rates. Car thefts have halved since the mid 1990s. And since stolen vehicles are used in other crimes like robberies, other sorts of crime are down too, as numerous charts this week show. The crime reduction is despite a difficult global economy. Growth is slowing in China and new loans at American banks are far below the rate following previous recessions. There is an arresting chart showing the likelihood that job applicants are called back for an interview falls precipitously after a year out of work. In Brazil, the religious composition of society is changing as the percentage of Roman Catholics declines slightly while the number of Protestants expands&nbsp;dramatically.&nbsp;A contact sheet of this week's infographics is available to download here.
THE charges were bound to generate big headlines for a little-known regulator. Barclays, a British bank already tainted by its role in fixing LIBOR, a vital interest rate, was accused on July 17th of manipulating electricity prices in California and other states, and slapped with a $453m fine by America’s Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Yet the bank soon deviated from the usual script. Instead of accepting its punishment, Barclays contested the ruling, saying it was “unsupportable” and that its trading was legitimate.
The bank’s belligerence is atypical: financial firms try to avoid open conflict with their regulators. But many European bankers will be privately cheering Barclays on. There is a widespread belief that when it comes to foreign banks, American justice is more one-eyed than blind.
The evidence for this belief is circumstantial. American “IT COULD have been worse” was the common refrain as American banks began reporting their second-quarter earnings. Indeed, the striking characteristic of the returns was their consistency. Big and small, local and national, lenders across the country have been benefiting from some common tailwinds. Legal settlements are becoming sparser; the economy is expanding, albeit feebly, and the housing market is recovering; auditors are pushing banks to keep releasing loan-loss reserves; and actual losses are trivial.
But avoiding disaster is not really cause for celebration. Consumers continue to shed debt; companies carry ever more cash. Banks’ pre-provision revenue growth is muted (see chart 1), and ...<div class="og_rss_groups"></div>
FOR Mohamed Abdulle, sending money to his family in Somalia means a trip to a high street in Stratford, East London, home to a large expatriate community. Once there he hands over cash, a telephone number and a name, usually that of his grandmother who lives in Somalia’s capital, Mogadishu, to an agent. A few minutes later Mr Abdulle, who works as a shop assistant, gets a text message letting him know the cash has arrived on the other side. This fast and reliable system, developed during decades of war in Somalia, is used by hundreds of thousands in the global diaspora, as well as by some UN offices and aid agencies to pay staff.
 PlayBook: A hit for J-Lo, a miss for others 
 ITS turnaround playbook turned out to be just as disappointing as its PlayBook tablet computer, which was supposed to rival Apple’s iPad but never caught on. Having failed to reverse its fortunes as a public company, BlackBerry announced on September 23rd that it had struck a preliminary deal with a group of investors who want to take it private, at a value of $4.7 billion. This is only slightly above its market value just before the bid, and a massive comedown from the $83 billion the company was worth in its heyday in 2008.Companies that still insist their employees use BlackBerry devices, and the corporate road warriors who gossip about them on sites such as crackberry.com, are debating what this bid means for the future of the firm. Like Dell, another fallen tech icon that recently went private, BlackBerry is betting it can heal its wounds in the shadows. But they look fatal.Sales of BlackBerrys have been battered by competition from sleeker devices using Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android operating systems. The firm’s latest effort to create a hip handset of its own, the Z10, has also...  THESE should be glorious days for the firms that supply the semiconductor industry. Demand for personal computers is crashing, but the market for smartphones and tablets has soared. The “internet of things”, in which billions of machines will converse with each other, is a vision of the near rather than the distant future.More devices mean more demand for chips—which in turn must be made on machines that can cost tens of millions of dollars. Yet the outlook for the makers of those machines is uncertain. That largely explains why on September 24th the biggest of them, America’s Applied Materials, and the third-biggest, Tokyo Electron of Japan, said they were joining forces to create a new company worth $29 billion. Together they will have just over a quarter of the market, about twice as much as ASML of the Netherlands, the second-biggest.The equipment-makers face a small, ever more powerful group of customers. Just three companies—Intel, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and Samsung—will account for more than half of this year’s purchases of kit by the chipmaking industry, says Gartner, a research firm. Tokyo Electron used to have a more robust customer base of midsized Japanese semiconductor firms, but as these have weakened it has become more dependent on the few big foreign customers.The chief goal of the deal for both firms, therefore, is to strengthen their...   
 
 Bluecar, grey car, green car 
 GROUPE BOLLORÉ is one of those family-owned European firms that seem to have jumped like mountain goats from foothold to industrial foothold down the decades. For more than a century it specialised in making paper, before branching out into plastic films for condensers and then advanced batteries. Now it is taking the electric-car market by stealth, if not yet by storm.On September 12th Bolloré and Renault said they would collaborate in the field of electric vehicles. The idea is to extend urban car-sharing schemes and perhaps to produce Bolloré’s existing electric Bluecar at Renault’s factory in Dieppe, as well as a new, smaller version. The French carmaker claims about half of the meagre European market for electric cars but competition is hotting up, with big rivals such as BMW and Volkswagen piling in. Arnaud Montebourg, France’s minister for industrial recovery, welcomed the accord as just the sort of French-French partnership that is needed to restore his country’s fading economy to global greatness.Bolloré is not yet as big a star as Tesla, a ten-year-old Californian maker of high-end electric cars...   
 
 Downhill all the way 
 BICYCLE fairs come thick and fast at the end of summer in Europe. Eurobike closed on August 31st in Friedrichshafen, Germany; the Salon du Cycle in Paris on September 16th. And how the market is changing: for all the hype over the latest rugged mountain bike, the whirr of electrically assisted wheels is clearly audible. Although electric cars have struggled to gain purchase (their sticker price is unalluring and they stop dead if not recharged), sales of cycles using batteries to augment a rider’s own efforts are growing quickly. Faster ones with more sophisticated electronic controls, a bit like those popular in China, may also be gaining ground.In the Netherlands one bicycle in six sold is an e-bike. In Germany the cycle industry expects electric-bike sales to grow by 13% this year, to 430,000 (the most sold in any European country), and to account for 15% of the market before long. In France sales of traditional bicycles fell by 9% in 2012 while those of e-bikes grew by 15%.E-bikes are catching on as people move to cities and add concern about pollution and parking to worry over petrol prices and global warming....   
 
 The news of Twitter’s launch of its IPO process on September 13th came too late for last week’s issue, so we asked our online readers and Twitter followers to explain it in a tweet. We’ve picked the one above. Twitter sparked controversy because it used recent legislation to give itself the option to delay publication of its filing to securities regulators.  TEACHING management skills to Saudi women might seem rather futile. Few women in the kingdom hold positions of power, and there are few industries in which they are allowed to pursue careers. But a leadership-development programme for Saudi women, initiated by the British Council and run by academics from Durham University business school, nevertheless hopes to make a difference.The programme, in Riyadh, has proved popular. It aims to build women’s confidence in business situations and to help them form networks, so that they can exert more influence as a group. The skills they need are not straightforward. It is very rare for a Saudi woman to be a man’s boss, and women in leadership positions usually have a male sponsor. So women cannot make and implement decisions themselves, says Julie Hodges, one of the Durham teachers. They must learn to influence men without seeming to direct them.There are also practical difficulties running such a programme. One of the courses was sponsored by the Saudi chamber of commerce. It is keen on promoting women. Yet when two female teachers visited its offices to discuss details, the rules of segregation meant that all the men had to leave the building. The tutors have yet to meet any Saudi men of influence.Some leadership techniques are difficult to impart. The women wear an  abaya , a full-length cloak. Some also use...   
 Not such a safe bet 
 EACH hoping to win, and earn a lucrative contract with an Italian fashion house, earlier this month five aspiring Chinese models pranced along a catwalk in the ballroom of the casino in Campione d’Italia, a tiny Italian enclave in Switzerland. Around 500 Chinese residents in Italy were guests at the spectacle—broadcast on Chinese television—in Europe’s largest casino, a hulking yellow building looming over Lake Lugano.In the gambling business it is generally a safe bet that “the house always wins”. However, the municipally owned casino managed to lose €40m ($54m) in 2011 and a further €28m last year. Business has since improved, slightly. As revenues in Italy’s four other casinos (two in Venice, the others in Valle d’Aosta and San Remo) declined in the first half of this year, those of Campione d’Italia rose by 0.5% to €46.5 million.Carlo Pagan, its managing director, blames competition from other forms of gambling, the recession and austerity in Italy, which provides 85% of its visitors. Surrounded by Switzerland, it pays its staff in Swiss francs, which have strengthened against the euro. To avert bankruptcy it...   
 IT IS one of the engines of global capitalism. Not only does McKinsey provide advice to most of the world’s leading companies (and governments). It also pioneered the idea that business is a profession rather than a mere trade—and a profession that thrives on raw brainpower more than specialist industry knowledge or plain old common sense.Yet McKinsey’s name has suffered a succession of blows in the past 15 years. The Firm, as it calls itself, was deeply involved in the Enron debacle: the energy company’s boss, Jeff Skilling, was a McKinsey veteran who praised the consultancy for doing “God’s work”, and the  McKinsey Quarterly  published articles on Enron as enthusiastically as  Hello!  runs pieces about the Beckhams. In 2010 Anil Kumar, a McKinsey consultant, admitted passing inside information to Raj Rajaratnam of Galleon, a hedge fund. Last year Rajat Gupta, a former McKinsey managing partner, was also convicted of passing inside information to Mr Rajaratnam.Life is getting tougher for professional-services firms. Midsized consultancies are already suffering: Monitor Group went bankrupt last year—Deloitte later bought...   
 THIS is a golden age for makers of cheap copies of bestselling medicines whose patents have expired. Many of the world’s branded pills are falling off the “patent cliff”, at a time when governments are desperate to cut soaring health costs. Ranbaxy looked like a rising star of the boom in generic medicines when Daiichi Sankyo of Japan paid $4.6 billion for a 64% stake in the Indian firm in 2008. Since then Ranbaxy has suffered a series of safety scares and run-ins with regulators. This week it had another grave setback, as American regulators announced a ban on imports from a new factory that was supposed to solve Ranbaxy’s quality problems.In May the company hoped to put its troubles behind it, by agreeing to a $500m settlement with the US Department of Justice. Ranbaxy admitted that, among other things, it had invented safety data for some of its medicines. The company’s chief executive, Arun Sawhney, declared at the time that “Today’s announcement marks the resolution of this past issue.”But new ones keep arising. America’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA) imposed the ban on medicines from the firm’s new plant, at Mohali in Punjab, after its inspectors found...   
 A SHORT drive along Cairo Road, a clogged artery that runs through Lusaka, the capital of Zambia, affords a glimpse of the progress South Africa’s big grocery chains have made in the rest of Africa. The rather dowdy Shoprite store situated on the busy main road was opened in 1995 and was the firm’s first venture beyond its immediate South African hinterland. Farther along the road is a shiny shopping centre at Levy Junction, which opened in 2011. Its main tenant is Pick n Pay, a long-established retailer in South Africa but a recent entrant to Zambia. Woolworths, an upmarket chain (unrelated to some similarly named firms in other countries), has also opened a store here. So have many other South African retailers.Where Shoprite has led, others have followed. Its first store was one of eight acquired from a failing state-owed chain. It now looks a shrewd purchase. Zambia’s economy was then a mess but has since grown rapidly thanks to burgeoning demand from China for the copper that Zambia has in abundance. The country’s fortunes mirror those of the continent. Of the world’s ten fastest-growing economies in the past decade, six were African. Formal retailing is...   
 It flies. Now, will it sell? 
 SINCE the late 1990s airlines wanting to buy short-to-medium-haul “narrowbody” planes with 100-200 seats have had little choice (apart from some creaky old Russian aircraft) but to pick either Boeing’s 737 or Airbus’s A320. As orders for such planes have boomed in recent years, aircraft-makers in China, Russia and Canada have been working on new contenders to break this American-European duopoly. On September 16th Canada’s Bombardier got there first, launching the maiden flight of its CSeries plane (pictured).Bombardier is duelling the duopolists because the prospects for the planes it already makes—“regional” jets of under 100 seats and corporate jets—are not as juicy as those for mainstream commercial airliners. Global passenger traffic is set to grow by 5% a year for the next two decades, reckons Boeing, and airlines are seeking ones that seat 100-200 to fill much of the new demand. In regional jets Bombardier has enjoyed a near-duopoly of its own, with Embraer of Brazil. But Japanese, Russian and Chinese rivals are moving in to the market just as operators of regional jets are going for bigger planes....   
 IS TENCENT one of the world’s greatest internet firms? There are grounds for scepticism. The Chinese gaming and social-media firm started in the same way many local internet firms have: by copying Western success. QQ, its instant-messaging service, was a clone of ICQ, an Israeli invention acquired by AOL of America. And unlike global internet giants such as Google and Twitter, Tencent still makes its money in its protected home market.Yet the Chinese firm’s stockmarket valuation briefly crossed the $100 billion mark this week for the first time. Given that the valuation of Facebook, the world’s leading social-media firm, itself crossed that threshold only a few weeks ago, it is reasonable to wonder whether Tencent is worth so much. However, Tencent now has bigger revenues and profits than Facebook. In the first half of this year Tencent enjoyed revenues of $4.5 billion and gross profits of $2.5 billion, whereas Facebook saw revenues of $3.3 billion and gross profits of $935m.The Chinese firm’s market value reflects the phenomenal rise in its share price. A study out this week from the Boston Consulting Group found that Tencent had the highest shareholder total...   
sleek new smartphone to an adoring crowd. Yet this was not the launch of the new iPhone by Apple on September 10th, but of the Mi-3 handset by Xiaomi, a Chinese firm, in Beijing on September 5th. With its emphasis on snazzy design, glitzy launches and the cult-like fervour it inspires in its users, no wonder Xiaomi is often compared to its giant American rival, both by admirers and by critics who call it a copycat. Xiaomi’s boss, Lei Jun (pictured), even wears jeans and a black shirt, Steve Jobs-style. Is Xiaomi really China’s answer to Apple?Xiaomi sold 7.2m handsets last year, in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, earning revenues of 12.6 billion yuan ($2.1 billion). Apple sold 125m smartphones globally, earning about $80 billion of its $157 billion sales. But since it was founded in 2010, Xiaomi has grown fast. A recent funding round valued it at $10 billion, more than Microsoft just paid for Nokia’s handset unit. That made Xiaomi one of the 15 most heavily venture-backed mobile start-ups ever, says Rajeev Chand of... 
