Dance is a type of art that generally involves movement of the body, often rhythmic and to music. It is performed in many cultures as a form of emotional expression, social interaction, or exercise, in a spiritual or performance setting, and is sometimes used to express ideas or tell a story. Dance may also be regarded as a form of nonverbal communication between humans or other animals, as in bee dances and behaviour patterns such as a mating dances.
Definitions of what constitutes dance can depend on social and cultural norms and aesthetic, artistic and moral sensibilities. Definitions may range from functional movement (such as folk dance) to virtuoso techniques such as ballet. Martial arts kata are often compared to dances, and sports such as gymnastics, figure skating and synchronized swimming are generally thought to incorporate dance.
There are many styles and genres of dance. African dance is interpretative. Ballet, ballroom and tango are classical dance styles. Square dance and electric slide are forms of step dance, and breakdancing is a type of street dance. Dance can be participatory, social, or performed for an audience. It can also be ceremonial, competitive or erotic. Dance movements may be without significance in themselves, as in ballet or European folk dance, or have a gestural vocabulary or symbolic meaning as in some Asian dances.
Choreography is the art of creating dances. The person who creates (i.e., choreographs) a dance is known as the choreographer.


== Origins and history ==

Dance does not leave behind clearly identifiable physical artifacts such as stone tools, hunting implements or cave paintings. It is not possible to say when dance became part of human culture, but archeological evidence indicates dance has been an important part of ceremony, rituals, celebrations and entertainment since the earliest human civilizations. Examples of such evidence include 9,000 year old paintings in India at the Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka, and Egyptian tomb paintings depicting dancing figures, dated c. 3300 BC.
One of the earliest structured uses of dances may have been the telling of myths. Before the invention of written languages, dance was one of the methods of passing stories down from generation to generation. Dance was also used to show feelings for one of the opposite gender. It is also linked to the origin of "love making." Another early use of dance may have been as a precursor to ecstatic trance states in healing rituals. Dance is still used for this purpose by many cultures from the Brazilian rainforest to the Kalahari Desert.
Many contemporary dance forms can be traced back to historical, traditional, ceremonial, and ethnic dance. For example, some Sri Lankan dances are related to aboriginal, mythical devils known as "yakkas", and according to local legend, Kandyan dance began as a ritual that broke the magic spell on a bewitched king.


== Classification ==

Dance can be categorized in various ways, such as by the number of interacting dancers, as in solo dance, partner dance and group dance, or by purpose, as in ceremonial dance, erotic dance, performance dance, and social dance.


=== By ethnicity or region ===

Dance genres are often categorized by ethnicity or geographic region.


==== India ====

During the first millennium BCE in India, many texts were composed which attempted to codify aspects of daily life. In the matter of dance, Bharata Muni's Natyashastra (literally "the text of dramaturgy") is one of the earlier texts. Though the main theme of Natyashastra deals with drama, dance is also widely featured, and indeed the two concepts have ever since been linked in Indian culture. The text elaborates various hand-gestures or mudras and classifies movements of the various limbs of the body, gait, and so on. The Natyashastra categorised dance into four groups and into four regional varieties, naming the groups: secular, ritual, abstract, and, interpretive. However, concepts of regional geography has altered and so have regional varieties of Indian dances. Dances like "Odra Magadhi", which after decades long debate, has been traced to present day Mithila, Odisha region's dance form of Odissi (Orissi), indicate influence of dances in cultural interactions between different regions.
From these beginnings rose the various classical styles which are recognised today. Therefore, all Indian classical dances are to varying degrees rooted in the Natyashastra and therefore share common features: for example, the mudras, some body positions, and the inclusion of dramatic or expressive acting or abhinaya. The Indian classical music tradition provides the accompaniment for the dance, and as percussion is such an integral part of the tradition, the dancers of nearly all the styles wear bells around their ankles to counterpoint and complement the percussion.


===== Bhangra in the Punjab =====

The Punjab area overlapping India and Pakistan is the place of origin of Bhangra. It is widely known both as a style of music and a dance. It is mostly related to ancient harvest celebrations, love, patriotism or social issues. Its music is coordinated by a musical instrument called the 'Dhol'. Bhangra is not just music but a dance, a celebration of the harvest where people beat the dhol (drum), sing Boliyaan (lyrics) and dance.It developed further with the Vaisakhi festival of the Sikhs.


===== Sri Lanka =====

The devil dances of Sri Lanka or "yakun natima" are a carefully crafted ritual with a history reaching far back into Sri Lanka's pre-Buddhist past. It combines ancient "Ayurvedic" concepts of disease causation with psychological manipulation. The dance combines many aspects including Sinhalese cosmology, the dances also has an impact on the classical dances of Sri Lanka.


==== Europe and North America ====


===== Concert (or performance) dance =====


====== Ballet ======

Ballet developed first in Italy and then in France from lavish court spectacles that combined music, drama, poetry, song, costumes and dance. Members of the court nobility took part as performers. During the reign of Louis XIV, himself a dancer, dance became more codified. Professional dancers began to take the place of court amateurs, and ballet masters were licensed by the French government. The first ballet dance academy was the Académie Royale de Danse (Royal Dance Academy), opened in Paris in 1661. Shortly thereafter, the first institutionalized ballet troupe, associated with the Academy, was formed; this troupe began as an all-male ensemble but by 1681 opened to include women as well.


====== 20th-century concert dance ======

At the beginning of the 20th century, there was an explosion of innovation in dance style characterized by an exploration of freer technique. Early pioneers of what became known as modern dance include Loie Fuller, Isadora Duncan, Mary Wigman and Ruth St. Denis. The relationship of music to dance serves as the basis for Eurhythmics, devised by Emile Jaques-Dalcroze, which was influential to the development of Modern dance and modern ballet through artists such as Marie Rambert. Eurythmy, developed by Rudolf Steiner and Marie Steiner-von Sivers, combines formal elements reminiscent of traditional dance with the new freer style, and introduced a complex new vocabulary to dance. In the 1920s, important founders of the new style such as Martha Graham and Doris Humphrey began their work. Since this time, a wide variety of dance styles have been developed; see Modern dance.


===== African American dance =====

African American dances are those dances which have developed within African American communities in everyday spaces, rather than in dance studios, schools or companies and its derivatives, tap dance, disco, jazz dance, swing dance, hip hop dance and breakdance. Other dances, such as the lindy hop with its relationship to rock and roll music and rock and roll dance have also had a global influence.


== Dancing and music ==

Many early forms of music and dance were created and performed together. This paired development has continued through the ages with dance/music forms such as the jig, waltz, tango, disco, salsa, electronica and hip-hop. Some musical genres have a parallel dance form such as baroque music and baroque dance; others, such as classical music and classical ballet, developed separately.
Although dance is often accompanied by music, it can also be presented independently or provide its own accompaniment (tap dance). Dance presented with music may or may not be performed in time to the music depending on the style of dance. Dance performed without music is said to be danced to its own rhythm.[citation needed]


== Dance studies ==

In the early 1920s, dance studies (dance practice, critical theory, Musical analysis and history) began to be considered as an academic discipline. Today these studies are an integral part of many universities' arts and humanities programs. By the late 20th century the recognition of practical knowledge as equal to academic knowledge led to the emergence of practice research and practice as research. A large range of dance courses are available including:
Professional practice: performance and technical skills
Practice research: choreography and performance
Ethnochoreology, encompassing the dance-related aspects of: anthropology, cultural studies, gender studies, area studies, postcolonial theory, ethnography, etc.
Dance therapy, or dance-movement therapy
Dance and technology: new media and performance technologies
Laban Movement Analysis and somatic studies
Academic degrees are available from BA (Hons) to PhD and other postdoctoral fellowships, with some dance scholars taking up their studies as mature students after a professional dance career.


== Occupations ==

There are several careers connected with dancing: Dancer, dance teacher, dance sport coach, dance therapist and choreographer.
Dancer

Professional dancers are usually employed on contract or for particular performances/productions. The professional life of a dancer is generally one of constantly changing work situations, strong competition pressure and low pay. Professional dancers often need to supplement their income, either in dance related roles (e.g., dance teaching, dance sport coaches, yoga) or Pilates instruction to achieve financial stability.
In the U.S. many professional dancers are members of unions such as the American Guild of Musical Artists, the Screen Actors Guild and Actors' Equity Association. The unions help determine working conditions and minimum salaries for their members.
Dance teachers
Dance teacher and operators of dance schools rely on reputation and marketing. For dance forms without an association structure such as Salsa or Tango Argentino they may not have formal training. Most dance teachers are self-employed.
Dance training differs depending on the dance form. There are university programs and schools associated with professional dance companies for specialised training in classical dance (e.g. Ballet) and modern dance. There are also smaller, privately owned dance studios where students may train in a variety of dance forms including competitive dance forms (e.g. Latin dance, ballroom dance, etc.) as well as ethnic/traditional dance forms.
Dancesport coaches
Dancesport coaches are tournament dancers or former dancesports people, and may be recognised by a dance sport federation.
Choreographer
Choreographers are generally university trained and are typically employed for particular projects or, more rarely may work on contract as the resident choreographer for a specific dance company. A choreographic work is protected intellectual property. Dancers may undertake their own choreography.


== Competitions ==

A dance competition is an organized event in which contestants perform dances before a judge or judges for awards, and in some cases, monetary prizes. There are several major types of dance competitions, distinguished primarily by the style or styles of dances performed. Major types of dance competitions include:
Competitive dance, in which a variety of theater dance styles such as: acro, ballet, jazz, hip-hop, lyrical, and tap, are permitted.
Open competitions, that permit a wide variety of dance styles. A popular example of this is the TV program So You Think You Can Dance.
Dancesport, which is focused exclusively on ballroom and latin dance. Popular examples of this are TV programs Dancing with the Stars and Strictly Come Dancing.
Single-style competitions, such as; highland dance, dance team, and Irish dance, that only permit a single dance style.
Today, there are various dances and dance show competitions on television and the Internet.


== See also ==

Lists
List of choreographers
List of dance style categories
List of dance topics
List of dance wikibooks
Articles
Backup dancer
Cheerleading
Collective identity, the shared sense of belonging to a group
Entrainment (Biomusicology), the synchronization of organisms to an external rhythm
Health risks of professional dance
Dance costumes
Dance criticism
Dance theory
Dancing ban
Physically integrated dance


== References ==
Notes

Further reading
Adshead-Lansdale, J. (Ed.) (1994) Dance History: An Introduction. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-09030-X.
Blogg, Martin. Dance and the Christian Faith: A Form of Knowing, The Lutterworth Press (2011), ISBN 9780718892494
Carter, A. (1998) The Routledge Dance Studies Reader. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-16447-8.
Charman, S. Kraus, R, G. Chapman, S. and Dixon-Stowall, B. (1990) History of the Dance in Art and Education. Pearson Education. ISBN 0-13-389362-6.
Cohen, S, J. (1992) Dance As a Theatre Art: Source Readings in Dance History from 1581 to the Present. Princeton Book Co. ISBN 0-87127-173-7.
Daly, A. (2002) Critical Gestures: Writings on Dance and Culture. Wesleyan University Press. ISBN 0-8195-6566-0.
Dils, A. (2001) Moving History/Dancing Cultures: A Dance History Reader. Wesleyan University Press. ISBN 0-8195-6413-3.
Miller, James, L. (1986) Measures of Wisdom: The Cosmic Dance in Classical and Christian Antiquity, University of Toronto Press. ISBN 0-8020-2553-6.
Wallace, Carol McD., et al. (1986). Dance: a very social history. New York: The Metropolitan Museum of Art. ISBN 9780870994869. 


== External links ==
 Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Dance". Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press 
Historic illustrations of dancing from 3300 B.C. to 1911 A.D. from Project Gutenberg

== Traditional Jazz / traditional African-American vernacular ==
Black Bottom
Boogie-woogie
Cabbage patch
Cakewalk
Charleston
Chicago stepping
Detroit Ballroom
Drunken Sailor
Hand Dance / Bop
Jitterbug
Jazz dance
Lindy hop
Swing
Tap dance
Crip Walking
Shuffling
Break Dance
Slide and Glide
Texas Swingout
Texas slidethrough
Texas Tommy
Ballroom


== Dancehall dance ==
Skanking


== Experimental / freestyle ==
Boogie
Jump up[disambiguation needed]
dance de Gauthier
contemporary


== Folk dance ==
Regional dance like in India 1. Mass 2. Rajastani 3. Punjabi 4. Bhangra 5. Dandiya and Garba


== Hip-hop dance ==
Breaking
Bounce
Twerking

Crip Walk (C-Walk)
Clown Walk
Crown Walk

Detroit Jit
Electric boogaloo
Floating
Jerkin'
Jiggin'
Memphis Jookin'
Krumping
Litefeet
Locking
Robot dance

Popping
Liquiding
Moonwalk
Strobing
Waving

Snap dance
Turfing
Lyrical hip-hop


== Disco/Electronic dance ==
Disco dance
House dance
Hustle
Jacking
Vogue
Waacking
Electro Dance
Grinding
Slothing
Hard dance
The Malaysian shuffle is a dance that is similar to Melbourne but was created in California by children. It became a trend for most middle school and high school students.
Melbourne Shuffle
Jumpstyle
Free step
Hardcore dancing


== Pogo ==
Punk Rock Pogo Metal Mosh Ska Dance Hard Rock Pogo


== Historical dance ==
Historical dance
Medieval dance
Renaissance dance
Masque
English country dance
Baroque dance
Regency dance
Vintage dance


=== Liturgical dance ===
Liturgical dance


=== Participative dance improvisation ===
Contact improvisation
Ecstatic dance aka Freestyle Dance aka Barefoot Improvisational Dance


=== Folk dance ===
Perafic dance


== Concert dance / Performance dance ==
Concert dance
The Lucker Stomp


=== Latin/Rhythm ===
American Rhythm
Mambo
Rumba
Bolero
East Coast Swing

International Latin
Rumba
Samba (ballroom dance)
Jive
Reggaeton
Salsa
Rueda

Danza
Samba (Brazilian dance)
Samba de Gafieira
Bachata
Cumbia
Merengue
Capoeira
Maculelê

Argentine tango
Zouk

Quebradita
Duranguense
Cumbia Texana
Corridos
Tejano
Cha Cha


=== Swing dance ===
Modern Jive
Leroc
Lindy Hop
Blues dance
Balboa
Deneme
Jitterbug
Jitting (evolved from Jitterbug)
Jive (dance)
East Coast Swing
West Coast Swing
Collegiate Shag
Carolina Shag
Hand Jive
Charleston
Western dance


=== Miscellaneous concert ===
Acro dance
Ballet
Belly dance
Bernie dance
Bollywood dance
Calypso
Compas dance
Contemporary dance
Disco dance
Fire dance
Flamenco
Flying Men dance
Greek Classical
Hip Hop
Line dance
Lyrical
Modern dance
Novelty and fad dances
Performance dance
Pom dance
Reggae dance
Reggaeton dance
Salsa
Salsaton dance
Soca dance
Spinning, hooping and flow arts
Tap dance
Zumba


== Further reading ==
Carter, A. (1998) The Routledge Dance Studies Reader. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-16447-8
Sharp, C. J. (1924) The dance; an historical survey of dancing in Europe. Rowman and Littlefield . ISBN 0-87471-105-3
Thomas, H. (2003) The Body, Dance and Cultural Theory. Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 0-333-72432-1
Feliksdal, B (2003) Modern Tap Dance, ISBN 90-807699-2-4 Bekebooks
Feliksdal, B (2004) Jazz Dance Syllabus Jazz, Rhythm, Body and Soul. ISBN 90-807699-4-0 Bekebooks. Amsterdam, The Netherlands,Flamenco
Feliksdal, B (2009) Urban Dance-Jazzdans, ISBN 978-90-807699-6-0 Bekebooks. Amsterdam,The Netherlands
Shipter Fan, B (2009) "Urban Dance-Jazzdans", ISBN 9878980987850 Bekebooks. Amsterdam, The NetherlandsThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to dance:
Dance – human movement either used as a form of expression or presented in a social, spiritual or performance setting. Choreography is the art of making dances, and the person who does this is called a choreographer. Definitions of what constitutes dance are dependent on social, cultural, aesthetic, artistic and moral constraints and range from functional movement (such as Folk dance) to codified, virtuoso techniques such as ballet.


== What is dance? ==
Dance is a type of:
Exercise – bodily activity that enhances or maintains physical fitness and overall health and wellness.
Human behavior –
Motion – change in position of something over time.
Art – an art is a creative endeavor or discipline.
Performing art –

Hobby – regular activity or interest that is undertaken for pleasure, typically done during one's leisure time.
Recreation – leisure time activity.


== Types of dance ==
Dance categories are not mutually exclusive. For example, tango is traditionally a partner dance. While it is mostly social dance, its ballroom form may be competitive dance, as in DanceSport. At the same time it is enjoyed as performance dance, whereby it may well be a solo dance. Furthermore, there are tangos among round dances, participation dances can involve tango mixers, and tango-style dances may be used in ice dancing or in burlesque theatre.


=== Types of dance by number of interacting dancers ===
Solo dance
Partner dance
Group dance


=== Types of dance by main purpose ===
Ceremonial dance
Competitive dance
Erotic dance
Participation dance
Performance dance
Social dance
Concert dance


== History of dance ==
History of dance
National Museum of Dance and Hall of Fame (United States)


== Dance technique ==
Choreography
Connection
Dance moves
Lead and follow
Musicality
Dance theory


== Dance topics ==
Dance etiquette
History of dance
Dance in mythology and religion
Dance in film
Dance music
Dance and health
Dance notation
Dance science


== Dancers ==
List of dancers
List of dance personalities


== Glossaries ==
Glossary of partner dance terms
Glossary of dance moves
Musical terminology
Glossary of ballet terms


== Dance-related media ==
Dance film
Dance music
Musical film


== Dance-related lists ==
List of ballroom and social dance albums
List of dance organizations
List of dance style categories
List of dance topics
List of dance wikibooks
General index list of dances
List of DanceSport dances
List of folk dances sorted by origin
List of New York City Ballet repertory
List of novelty and fad dances
List of quotations about dance
List of ethnic, regional, and folk dances sorted by origin


== See also ==

Music
Musical terminology


== External links ==
This outline displayed as a mindmap, at wikimindmap.com
Historic Illustrations of Dancing from 3300 B.C. to 1911 A.D. from Project Gutenberg
United States National Museum of Dance and Hall of FameIndian classical dance is an umbrella term for various codified art forms rooted in Natya and sacred Hindu musical theatre styles whose theory can be traced back to the Natya Shastra of Bharata Muni (400 BCE).


== Definitions ==
These are:
Dances performed inside the sanctum of the temple according to the rituals were called Agama Nartanam. Natya Shastra classifies this type of dance form as margi, or the soul-liberating dance.
Dances performed in royal courts to the accompaniment of classical music were called Carnatakam. This was an intellectual art form.
For lack of better equivalents in the European culture, the British colonial authorities called any performing art forms found in India "Indian dance". Even though the art of Natya includes nritta or dance proper, Natya has never been limited to dancing and includes singing and abhinaya (mime acting). These features are common to all of the Indian classical styles. In the margi form, Nritta is composed of karanas, while desi nritta consists mainly of adavus.
The term "classical" (Sanskrit: "Shastriya") was introduced by Sangeet Natak Akademi to denote the Natya Shastra-based performing art styles. A very important feature of Indian classical dances is the use of the mudra or hand gestures by the artists as a shorthand sign language to narrate a story and to demonstrate certain concepts such as objects, weather, nature and emotions. Many classical dances include facial expressions as an integral part of the dance form.


== Dance forms ==
The Natya Shastra authored by Bharata Muni, mentions the names of no classical dance form recognized today, but in its fourteenth chapter the four Pravrittis are listed as: Dakshinatya, Audramagadhi, Avanti, and Panchali. All these traditional dance forms declined in popularity during the British colonial rule. Revival of these dance forms started around the middle of the 20th century.
Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi, and Mohiniyattam were evolved from the Pravritti named Dakshinatya. The Audramagadhi represents the dance of Audramagadha, comprising territories of Anga, Banga, North part of Kalinga and Vatsa (Sloka is angabangautkalingavatsachaiva audramagadha). From this Odissi in Odisha, Satriya in Assam and Gaudiya Nritya in Bengal were evolved. Little is known about the two other forms of Avanti and Panchali.
Sangeet Natak Akademi has given its awards to eight Indian dance styles, and in its Natya Sangam (festival of dance), artistes from other classical dance forms have been invited to perform. Some sources have a different view about the listings of Indian classical dance forms. For instance, the Encyclopædia Britannica mentions six recognized schools. The Ministry of Culture of Government of India, has increased the dance forms that it accepts as a part of Indian classical dance repertory by providing scholarships to young artistes in Indian Classical Dance/ Dance Music. It currently confers classical dance status to eleven dance forms. The recognized classical dance forms by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, and Ministry of Culture are represented below:
A dance style is classical to the extent that it incorporates the Natya Shastra techniques. Some of the styles, such as Kathak, use very few elements found in Natya Shastra. Other art dances yet to be recognized as classical dances, whose theories and techniques can also be traced back to the Natya Shastra[citation needed] are:
Andhra Natyam - Telugu art dance
Vilasini Nrityam/Natyam - Telugu art dance
Kerala Natanam - Kerala classical dance
Of the recognized dance forms, the only two temple dance styles that have their origin in Natya Shastra and are prescribed by the Agamas are Bharata Natyam and Odissi. These two most faithfully adhere to the Natya Shastra but currently do not include Vaachikaabhinaya (dialog acts), although some styles of Bharata Natyam, such as Melattur style, prescribe the lip and eye movements indicating Vaachikaabhinaya.
Kuchipudi, which also prescribes the lip movements indicating Vaachikaabhinaya, and Mohiniyattam are relatively recent Darbari Aatam forms, as is Kathakali, and two eastern Indian styles, Manipuri and Sattriya, that are quite similar.
Kathak originated as a court dance and some believe it evolved from Lord Krishna's raas lilas, forms of which have also evolved into the Garba-style dances popular in North India and Gujarat. The style gradually changed during the Mughal period under the influence of Persian dance, a major change being straight knees instead of the bent knees used in most other Indian classical forms. Intricate footwork and spins, as well as abhinaya, are the highlights of Kathak.
Currently, Sangeet Natak Akademi does not consider the recently reconstructed dance styles of Andhra Pradesh such as Andhra Natyam and Vilasini Natyam as "classical". Bharatanrithyam, despite being the one most closely following Natya Shastra's precepts, is considered as a variety of Bharata Natyam.


== Sabha ==
Sabhas are the organizations involved in the promotion of classical art forms in South India. Ganamukundhapriya is one such Sabha that specialises in classical dances. Various events are held each year to celebrate classical dance.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Massey, Reginald (2004). India's dances: their history, technique, and repertoire. Abhinav Publications. 
Revealing the Art of Natyasastra by Narayanan Chittoor Namboodiripad ISBN 10: 8121512182 / ISBN 13: 9788121512183


== External links ==
Classical Indian dance on the Open Directory ProjectDance India Dance is an Indian dance competition show that airs on Zee TV in the India, produced by UTV Software Communications and has become India's largest dance-based reality show. The show is the national TV version of the hit Zee Bangla dance reality show Dance Bangla Dance which also has Mithun Chakraborty as the Grandmaster.
The show first premiered on January 30, 2009, was created by Zee TV producers . The first season was hosted by Tarana Raja; since then second season it has been hosted by Indian television personality Saumya Tandon with Jay Bhanushali. The show features a format where dancers from a variety of styles enter open auditions held in Indian Metropolitan cities to showcase their unique style and talents and, if allowed to move forward, then are put through Mega-audition rounds of auditions to test their ability to adapt to different styles. At the end of Mega Audition, Only Top 18 dancers are chosen as 'finalists' who move on to compete in the competition's main phase where they will perform solo, duet and group dance numbers in a variety of styles in competition for the votes of the broadcast viewing audience which, combined with the input of a panel of judges, determines which dancers will advance to the next stage from week to week.
The show features a variety of Indian cultural and international dance styles ranging across a broad spectrum of classical, contemporary, Bollywood, hip-hop, jazz, Kalaripayattu, Salsa, Samba and musical theatre styles, amongst others, with many sub-genres within these categories represented. Competitors attempt to master these styles in an attempt to survive successive weeks of elimination and win a cash prize (typically Rs 50 Lakh) and often other awards, as well as the title of "India's Best Dancer". The show is choreographed by some of the most popular Indian choreographers, such as Terence Lewis, Remo D'Souza and Geeta Kapoor. The show has won several Television Awards for Most Popular Dance Reality Show.


== Show Format ==
The show gathers raw talent aged 15 to 25 from all over India. Once chosen, the contestants are trained by professional Bollywood choreographers. Thereafter the participants compete against each other. Some of the dance forms that are taught to the contestants are ballet, acrobatics, shadow dancing, mid-air dancing, Broadway theatre, contemporary, Bollywood, Latin, ballroom, and hip-hop.


== Auditions ==
The contestants get a chance to perform before a panel of judges composed of Terrence Lewis, Remo d'souza and Geeta Kapoor. The selection of the season's Top 18 live show finalists are overseen by head judge Mithun Chakraborty.


=== Selection of finalists ===
The selection process can be further broken down into two distinct stages: the open auditions and a second phase referred to as the 'Mega Auditions'. The open auditions take place in 5–6 major Indian cities and are typically open to anyone aged 15–30 at the time of their audition. The cities in which auditions are held varies from season to season but some, such as New Delhi and Mumbai, have featured in almost every season. During this stage, dancers perform a brief routine (typically individually) before a panel of dance experts. This panel will then make an on-the-spot decision as to whether the dancer demonstrated enough ability . If the dancer impressed the Judges with his/her dancing abilities, judges will award a "Dancing Superstar ki Topi" (Hat of Dancing Superstar), moving them instantly one step forward in the competition.

.
The second stage of the selection process, the "Mega Auditions", is a several-day-long process in which the remaining hopefuls are tested for overall well-rounded dance ability, stamina, and their ability to perform under pressure. The dancers are put through a battery of rounds which test their ability to pick up various dance styles (typically some of the more well-represented genres that will later be prominent in the competition phase, such as Hip-Hop, Bollywood Dance, Jazz, Bharat Natyam, Kathak, Mohiniyattam, Odissi and Contemporary). At the end of this process, only Top 18 competitors will be chosen. then, Those Top 18 got divided into 3 groups of dancers named, Terence Ki Toli, Geeta Ki Gang and Remo Ke Rangeeley. Each Group containing 6 Dancers, then compete in the show with learning new skills throughout the Journey .


== Seasons ==


=== Grand Finalists ===


== Season synopses ==


=== Season 1: 2009 ===

The final show aired on May 30, 2009. The winner was Salman Yusuff Khan (from Remo Ke Rangeelay), Alisha Singh (from Terence ki Toli) was named first runner-up.


=== Season 2: 2010 ===

The final show aired on April 23, 2010. The winner was Shakti Mohan (from Terence Ki Toli). Dharmesh Sir (from Geeta ki Gang) was named first runner-up.


=== Season 3: 2012 ===

The winner of the season is Rajasmita Kar (Geeta Ki Gang) from Orissa. Pradeep Gurung (from Terence ki Toli) was voted as runner-up .


== Dance India Dance Super Mom ==


=== 2013 ===
Mithu Chowdhury from Kolkata was declared the winner of Dance India Dance Super Mom 2013 Season. She was awarded with a Cheque of Rs 10 Lakhs and a Trophy by swostika lamichhane and subin lamichhane at the grand Finale held in Surat on September 08, 2013.


== Dance India Dance Li'l Masters ==


=== Grand Finalists ===


=== Li'l Masters Season 1 ===

Jeetumoni Kalita was declared winner of DID L'il Masters after the finale.


=== Li'l Masters Season 2 ===

The 2nd season of Dance India Dance Li'l Masters of Dance India Dance Series. Faisal Khan "the great dancer"(from Prince ki Paltan)was declared as the winner . Om Chettri was declared as runner-up .


== Dance India Dance Doubles ==

12 finalist couples were chosen out of thousands aspirants purely based on talent and performances. Amit & Fellon was voted as Winners .


=== Season 4: 2013 ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Dance India Dance at the Internet Movie Database
Dance India Dance on Facebook
Dance India Dance on Google+Contemporary dance is a popular form of dance which developed during the middle portion of the twentieth century and has since grown to become one of the dominating performance genres for formally trained dancers throughout the world, with particularly strong popularity in the U.S. and western Europe. Although originally informed by and borrowing from classical, modern, and jazz styles, it has since come to incorporate elements from many styles of dance, but due to its popularity amongst trained dancers and some overlap in movement type, it is often perceived as being closely related to modern dance, ballet and other classical concert dance styles.
In terms of the focus of its technique, contemporary dance tends to utilize both the strong and controlled legwork of ballet and modern dance's stress on the torso, and also employs contact-release, floor work, fall and recovery, and improvisation characteristic of modern dance. Unpredictable changes in rhythm, speed, and direction are often used, as well. It sometimes also incorporates elements of non-western dance cultures such as elements from African dance including bent knees, or movements from the Japanese contemporary dance Butoh.


== History ==

Contemporary dance draws on both classical ballet and modern dance, whereas postmodern dance was a direct and opposite response to modern dance. Merce Cunningham, initially a student of Martha Graham, accompanied his dance in April 1944, with music that was composed and performed by John Cage, who said that Cunningham's dance "no longer relies on linear elements (...) nor does it rely on a movement towards and away from climax. As in abstract painting, it is assumed that an element (a movement, a sound, a change of light) is in and of itself expressive; what it communicates is in large part determined by the observer themselves." Cunningham continued to showcase his work until 1953, when he formed Merce Cunningham Dance Company at the Black Mountain College in North Carolina. Cunningham is considered the first choreographer to "develop an independent attitude towards modern dance" and defy the ideas that were established by it.  Cunningham made over one hundred and fifty works for his dance company and his pieces have been incorporated into ballet and modern dance companies internationally. He is an inspiration to those who enjoy contemporary dance or those who want to follow in his footsteps. By Leah Griffin 


== Cunningham's key ideas ==
Cunningham's key ideas include:
Contemporary dance does not refuse the classical ballet's leg technique in favor of modern dance's stress on the torso
Contemporary dance is not necessarily narrative form of art
Choreography that appears disordered, but nevertheless relies on technique
Unpredictable changes in rhythm, speed, and direction
Multiple and simultaneous actions
Suspension of perspective and symmetry in ballet scenic frame perspective such as front, center, and hierarchies
Creative freedom
"Independence between dance and music"
Dance to be danced, not analyzed
Innovative lighting, sets, and costumes in collaboration with Andy Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg, and Jasper Johns 
Other pioneers of contemporary dance (the offspring of modern and postmodern) include Ruth St. Denis, Doris Humphrey, Mary Wigman, Francois Delsarte, Émile Jaques-Dalcroze, Paul Taylor, Rudolph von Laban, Loie Fuller, Jose Limon and Marie Rambert.


== Choreographer's role ==
There is usually a choreographer who makes the creative decisions. He/she chooses whether the piece is an abstract or a narrative one. Dancers are selected based on their skill and training. The choreography is determined based on its relation to the music or sounds that is danced to. The role of music in contemporary dance is different than in other genres because it can serve as a backdrop to the piece. The choreographer has control over the costumes and their aesthetic value for the overall composition of the performance and also in regards to how they influence dancers’ movements.


== Dance technique ==

Dance techniques and movement philosophies employed in contemporary dance may include Contemporary ballet, Dance improvisation, Modern dance styles from United States such as Graham technique, Humphrey-Weidman technique and Horton technique, Modern dance of Europe Bartenieff Fundamentals and the dance technique of Isadora Duncan(also see Free dance), non-dance related practices such as Pilates, Yoga, the acting practice of Corporeal mime - Étienne Decroux technique and somatic practices such as Alexander technique, Feldenkrais Method, Sullivan Technique and Franklin-Methode, American contemporary techniques such as José Limón technique and Hawkins technique and Postmodern dance techniques such as Contact improvisation and Cunningham technique, and Release technique.


== See also ==
Modern dance
Contemporary ballet
Tanztheater


== References ==
^ "Concordia University Contemporary Dance Program". 
^ Scheff, Helene; Marty Sprague, Susan McGreevy-Nichols (2010). Exploring dance forms and styles: a guide to concert, world, social, and historical dance. Human Kinetics. p. 87. ISBN 0-7360-8023-6.  
^ "Origins of Contemporary Dance". Retrieved 28 February 2012. 
^ a b c d "Contemporary Dance History". Retrieved 28 February 2012. 
^ a b "Modern Dance Pioneers". Retrieved 28 February 2012. 
^ "Choreo". Retrieved 28 February 2012. 
^ The Juilliard School - Dance Division - Curriculum Outline


== External links ==
Making Sense of Contemporary Dance: An Australian Investigation
What is Contemporary Dance?Jazz dance is a classification shared by a broad range of dance styles. Before the 1950s, jazz dance referred to dance styles that originated from African American vernacular dance. In the 1950s, a new genre of jazz dance — modern jazz dance — emerged, with roots in Caribbean traditional dance. Every individual style of jazz dance has roots traceable to one of these two distinct origins. Jazz was a big hit in the early 50's and it is still a well loved style of dance all over the world. Moves Used In Jazz Dance include Jazz Hands, Kicks, Leaps, Sideways Shuffling, Rolled Shoulders, and Turned Knees.


== History ==
The term "Jazz" was first applied to a style of music and dance during World War I. Jazz in a dance form, however, originates from the vernacular dances of Africans when they were brought to the Americas on slave ships. This dance form developed alongside jazz music in New Orleans in the early 1900s. Beginning in the 1930s and continuing through the 1960s, Jazz dance transformed from this vernacular form into a theatre-based performance form of dance that required a highly trained dancer. During this time, choreographers from the modern and ballet dance worlds experimented with the jazz dance style. This includes choreographers like George Balanchine, Agnes de Mille, Jack Cole, Hanya Holm, Helen Tamiris, Michael Kidd, Jerome Robbins, and Bob Fosse. All of these choreographers influenced jazz by requiring highly trained dancers to perform a specific set of movements, which differed greatly from the colloquial form of New Orleans in the 1900s. Also during this time period (circa. 1950) jazz dance was profoundly influenced by Caribbean and other Latin American dance styles which were introduced by anthropologist and dancer Katherine Dunham. Jazz is also like choreography too. 


== Elements ==

Throughout its history, jazz dance has developed in parallel to popular music. This pattern of development has resulted in a few elements of movement key to the dance style, the most important being that jazz is they physical embodiment of the popular music of a given time. An example of this is that during a down time of jazz dancing from 1945–1954, when big bands and dance halls were declining, the vernacular of the dance followed less jazz music and leaned more toward rock and roll, creating moves like "The Monkey" and "The Jerk".
Syncopated rhythm is a common characteristic in jazz music that was adapted to jazz dance in the early twentieth century and has remained a significant characteristic.
Isolations are a quality of movement that were introduced to jazz dance by Katherine Dunham.
Improvisation was an important element in early forms of jazz dance, as it is an important element of jazz music.
A low center of gravity and high level of energy are other important identifying characteristics of jazz dance. Other elements of jazz dance are less common and are the stylizations of their respective choreographers. One such example are the inverted limbs and hunched-over posture of Bob Fosse.


== Notable directors, dancers, and choreographers ==
Michael Jackson, known as "The King Of Pop"
Katherine Dunham, an anthropologist, choreographer, and pioneer in Black theatrical dance. She introduced isolations jazz dance.
Jack Cole, considered the father of jazz dance technique. He was a key inspiration to Matt Mattox, Bob Fosse, Jerome Robbins, Gwen Verdon, and many other choreographers. He is credited with popularizing the theatrical form of jazz dance with his great number of choreographic works on television and Broadway.
Eugene Louis Facciuto (aka "Luigi"), an accomplished dancer who, after suffering a crippling automobile accident in the 1950s, created a new style of jazz dance based on the warm-up exercises he invented to circumvent his physical handicaps. The exercise routine he created for his own rehabilitation became the world's first complete technique for learning jazz dance.[citation needed]
Bob Fosse, a noted jazz choreographer who created a new form of jazz dance that was inspired by Fred Astaire and the burlesque and vaudeville styles.
Gus Giordano, an influential jazz dancer and choreographer, known for his clean, precise movement qualities.
Jerome Robbins, choreographer for a number of hit musicals, including Peter Pan, The King and I, Fiddler on the Roof, Gypsy, Funny Girl, and West Side Story.
Gwen Verdon, known for her roles in Damn Yankees, Chicago, and Sweet Charity.
David Winters known for his role as A-Rab in West Side Story and as an award-winning choreographer for movies and TV programs.
Gene Kelly, award winning dance film icon. Known for continuing his career for over 60 years. Work can be found in Singin' in the Rain and On the Town.
Michael Bennett, director, writer, choreographer, and dancer who was a tony award winner. A Chorus Line and Dream Girls are examples of some of his work.


== See also ==
Tap dance


== References ==

"History of Jazz Dance". Buzzle.com. Buzzle.com. 17 July 2013. Retrieved 30 September 2013. 
http://www.dancestudiolife.com/2008/12/all-thats-jazz/


== Bibliography ==
Eliane Seguin, Histoire de la danse jazz, 2003, Editions CHIRON, ISBN 978-2-7027-0782-1, 281 pp
Jennifer Dunning, Alvin Ailey: A Life in Dance, 1998, Da Capo Press, ISBN 978-0-306-80825-8, 468 pp
A. Peter Bailey, Revelations: The Autobiography of Alvin Ailey, 1995, Carol Pub. Group, ISBN 978-0-8065-1861-9, 183 pp
Margot L. Torbert, Teaching Dance Jazz, Margot Torbert, 2000, ISBN 978-0-9764071-0-2
Robert Cohan, The Dance Workshop, Gaia Books Ltd, 1989, ISBN 978-0-04-790010-5Salsa is a popular form of social dance that originated in New York with strong influences from Latin America, particularly Cuba and Puerto Rico. The movements of salsa have its origins in Cuban Son, Cha cha cha, Mambo and other dance forms, and the dance, along with the music, originated in the mid-1970s in New York. It is commonly danced to salsa music, although the steps can be danced to any type of music with an 8-count rhythm.


== Origin ==
Salsa dancing originated in New York in the mid-1970s. It evolved from earlier dance forms such as Cha cha cha and Mambo which were popular in New York, and incorporated elements of Swing dancing and Hustle, as well as elements of Afro-Cuban and Afro-Caribbean dances such as Guaguanco and Pachanga.
There is some controversy surrounding the origins of the word salsa. Some claim that it was based on a cry shouted by musicians while they were playing their music. Other believe that the term was created by record labels to better market their music, who chose the word "salsa" because of its spicy and hot connotations. Still others believe the term came about because salsa dancing and music is a mixture of different styles, just like salsa or "sauce" in Latin American countries is a mixture of different ingredients. The exact origin is unknown.


== Description ==
In many styles of salsa dancing, as a dancer changes weight by stepping, the upper body remains level and nearly unaffected by the weight changes. Weight shifts cause the hips to move. Arm and shoulder movements are also incorporated. The Cuban Casino style of salsa dancing involves significant movement above the waist, with up-and-down shoulder movements and shifting of the ribcage.
The arms are used by the "lead" dancer to communicate or signal the "follower," either in "open" or "closed" position. The open position requires the two dancers to hold one or both hands, especially for moves that involve turns, putting arms behind the back, or moving around each other, to name a few examples. In the closed position, the leader puts the right hand on the follower's back, while the follower puts the left hand on the leader's shoulder.
In the original Latin America form, the forward/backward motion of salsa is done in diagonal or sideways with the 3-step weight change intact.
In some styles of salsa, such as LA and New York style, the dancers remain in a slot or line (switching places), while in some Latin American styles, such as Cuban style, the dancers circle around each other, sometimes in 3 points. This circular style is inspired by Cuban Son, specifically to the beat of Son Montuno in the 1920s. However, as it is a popular music, it is open to improvisation and thus it is continuously evolving. New modern salsa styles are associated and named to the original geographic areas that developed them. There are often devotees of each of these styles outside of their home territory. Characteristics that may identify a style include: timing, basic steps, foot patterns, body rolls and movements, turns and figures, attitude, dance influences and the way that partners hold each other. The point in a musical bar music where a slightly larger step is taken (the break step) and the direction the step moves can often be used to identify a style.
Incorporating other dance styling techniques into salsa dancing has become very common, for both men and women: shimmies, leg work, arm work, body movement, spins, body isolations, shoulder shimmies, rolls, even hand styling, acrobatics and lifts.
Latin American styles originate from Cuba and surrounding Caribbean islands.


== Salsa Dancing Locations ==
Salsa dance socials are commonly held in night clubs, bars, ballrooms, restaurants, and outside, especially if part of an outdoor festival. Salsa dancing is an international dance that can be found in most metropolitan cities in the world. Festivals are held annually, often called a Salsa Congress, in various host cities aimed to attract variety of salsa dancers from other cities and countries. The events bring dancers together to share their passion for the dance, build community, and to share moves and tips with each other. These events usually include salsa dance performers, live salsa music, workshops, open dancing, and contests.


== Rhythm ==

Music suitable for dancing ranges from about 150 bpm (beats per minute) to around 250 bpm, although most dancing is done to music somewhere between 160–220 bpm. Every salsa composition involves complex Afro-Cuban percussion based around the Clave Rhythm (which has four types), though there can be moments when the clave is hidden for a while, often when quoting Charanga, Changüí and Bomba. The key instrument that provides the core groove of a salsa song is the clave. It is often played with two wooden sticks (called clave) that are hit together. Every instrument in a salsa band is either playing with the clave (generally: congas, timbales, piano, tres guitar, bongos, claves (instrument), strings) or playing independent of the clave rhythm (generally: bass, maracas, güiro, cowbell). Melodic components of the music and dancers can choose to be in clave or out of clave at any point. However it is taboo to play or dance to the wrong type of clave rhythm (see salsa music). While dancers can mark the clave rhythm directly, it is more common to do so indirectly (with, for example, a shoulder movement). This allows the dancing itself to look very fluent as if the rest of the body is just moving untouched with the legs.
For salsa, there are four types of clave rhythms, the 3-2 and 2-3 Son claves being the most important, and the 3-2 and 2-3 Rumba claves. Most salsa music is played with one of the Son claves, though a Rumba clave is occasionally used, especially during Rumba sections of some songs. As an example of how a clave fits within the 8 beats of a salsa dance, the beats of the 2-3 Son clave are played on the counts of 2, 3, 5, the "and" of 6, and 8.
There are other aspects outside of the Clave that help define salsa rhythm: the cowbell, the Montuno rhythm and the Tumbao rhythm.
The cowbell is played on the core beats of salsa, 1, 3, 5 and 7. The basic Salsa rhythm is quick, quick, slow, quick, quick, slow, in other words, 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7, which are very similar to the beats of the cowbell. Recognizing the rhythm of the cowbell helps one stay on Salsa rhythm.
The Montuno rhythm is a rhythm that is often played with a piano. The Montuno rhythm loops over the 8 counts and is useful for finding the direction of the music. By listening to the same rhythm, that loops back to the beginning after eight counts, one can recognize which count is the first beat of the music.
Tumbao is a rhythm in salsa that is played with the conga drums. It sounds like: "cu, cum.. pa... cu, cum... pa". Its most basic pattern is played on the beats 2,3,4,6,7, and 8. Tumbao rhythm is helpful for learning to dance contra-tiempo ("On2"). The beats 2 and 6 are emphasized when dancing On2, and the Tumbao rhythm heavily emphasizes those beats as well.


== Styles ==

Salsa's roots are based on Cuban Son, specifically to the beat of Son Montuno in the 1920s. However, as it is a popular music, it is open to improvisation and thus it is continuously evolving. New modern salsa styles are associated and named to the original geographic areas that developed them. There are often devotees of each of these styles outside of their home territory. Characteristics that may identify a style include: timing, basic steps, foot patterns, body rolls and movements, turns and figures, attitude, dance influences and the way that partners hold each other. The point in a musical bar music where a slightly larger step is taken (the break step) and the direction the step moves can often be used to identify a style.
Incorporating other dance styling techniques into salsa dancing has become very common, for both men and women: shimmies, leg work, arm work, body movement, spins, body isolations, shoulder shimmies, rolls, even hand styling, acrobatics and lifts.
Latin American styles originate from Cuba and surrounding Caribbean islands including Puerto Rico, and the Dominican Republic and then expanding to Venezuela, Colombia, and the rest of Latin America; also heavily influence "Miami" style which is a fusion of Cuban style and North American version. The styles include "Casino", Miami-Style, Cali-style and Venezuelan Style.
North American styles have different characteristics: Los Angeles style breaks on the first beat "On 1" while New York style breaks on the second beat "On 2". Both have different origins and evolutionary path, as the New York Salsa is heavily influenced by Jazz instruments in its early growth stage.


=== Colombian / Cali style ===

Cali-Style Salsa, also known as Colombian Salsa, is based on geographical location of the Colombian City of Cali. Cali is also known as the "Capital de la Salsa" (World's Salsa Capital); due to salsa music being the main genre in parties, nightclubs and festivals in the 21st century.
The elements of Cali-Style Salsa were strongly influenced by dances to Caribbean rhythms which preceded salsa, such as Pachanga and Boogaloo.
The basic steles is the footwork which has quick rapid steps and skipping motions. They do not execute Cross-body Leads or the "Dile Que No" as seen in LA/New York-style and Cuban-style salsa, respectively. Their footwork is intricate and precise, helping several Colombian Style dancers win major world championships. Cali hosts many annual salsa events such as the World Salsa Cali Festival and the Encuentro de Melomanos y Coleccionistas.


=== Cuban "Casino" style ===

Cuban-style salsa, also known as Casino, is popular in many places around the world, including in Europe, Latin America, North America, and even in some countries in the Middle East. Dancing Casino is an expression of popular social culture; Cubans consider casino as part of social and cultural activities centering around their popular music. The name Casino is derived from the Spanish term for the dance halls, "Casinos Deportivos" where a lot of social dancing was done among the better off, white Cubans during the mid-20th century and onward.
Historically, Casino traces its origin as a partner dance from Cuban Son, fused with partner figures and turns. As with the Son, Danzon and Cha Cha Cha, it is traditionally, though less often today, danced "a contratiempo". This means that, distinct from subsequent forms of salsa, no step is taken on the first and fifth beats in each clave pattern and the fourth and eighth beat are emphasised. In this way, rather than following a beat, the dancers themselves contribute in their movement, to the polyrythmic pattern of the music.
What gives the dance its life, however, is not its mechanical technique, but understanding and spontaneous use of the rich Afro-Cuban dance vocabulary within a "Casino" dance. In the same way that a "sonero" (lead singer in Son and salsa bands) will "quote" other, older songs in their own, a "casino" dancer will frequently improvise references to other dances, integrating movements, gestures and extended passages from the folkloric and popular heritage. This is particularly true of African descended Cubans. Such improvisations might include extracts of rumba, dances for African deities, the older popular dances such as Cha Cha Cha and Danzon as well as anything the dancer may feel.


==== Miami-style Casino ====
Developed by Cuban migrants to Florida and centered around Miami, this form of Cuban Salsa fused with American culture and LA Style. The major difference of Miami-style from other North American styles is the "Atras" or "Diagonal"; breaking backwards diagonally instead of moving forwards and backwards as seen in the New York and L.A. Style. Dancers do not shift their body weight greatly as seen in other styles. Instead, dancers keep their upper body still, poised and relaxed while the feet execute endless intricacies. The dancer breaks mostly On1 (sometimes On3), with short measures of "4" instead of full "8" counts.
A major difference of Cali Style and Miami-style Casino is that the latter is exclusively danced on the downbeat (On1) and has elements of shines and show-style added to it, following repertoires of North American Styles.
Miami-style has many adherents, particularly Cuban-Americans and other Latinos based in South Florida.


==== Rueda de Casino ====

In the 1950s Salsa Rueda or more accurately Rueda de Casino was developed in Havana, Cuba. Pairs of dancers form a circle ("Rueda" in Spanish means "Wheel"), with dance moves called out by one person. Many of the moves involve rapidly swapping partners.
"Rueda de Cuba" is original type of Rueda, originating from Cuba. It is not as formal as Rueda de Miami and consists of about 30 calls. It was codified in the 1970s.
"Rueda de Miami" originated in the 1980s from Miami, is a formal style with many rules based on a mix, and is a hybridization of Rueda de Cuba & Los Angeles-style salsa and dance routines that reflect American culture (e.g. Coca-cola, Dedo, Adios) which is not found in the traditional Cuban-style Rueda.


=== Los Angeles style ===

L.A. style is danced on 1, in a slot, with a measure of easiness and adaptability to it. It is strongly influenced by the Mambo, Swing, Argentine Tango and Latin Ballroom dancing styles.[citation needed] L.A. style places strong emphasis on sensuousness, theatricality, aerobics and musicality.[citation needed] The lifts, stunts and aerial works of today's salsa shows are derived mostly from L.A. Style forms with origins in Latin Ballroom and Ballet lifts.[citation needed]
The two essential elements of this dance are the forward–backward basic as described above and the cross-body lead. In this pattern, the leader steps forward on 1, steps to the right on 2-3 while turning 90 degrees counter-clockwise (facing to the left), leaving the slot open. The follower then steps straight forward on 5-6 and turns on 7-8, while the leader makes another 90 degrees counter-clockwise and slightly forward, coming back into the slot. After these 8 counts, the leader and follower have exchanged their positions.
Albert Torres, Laura Canellias and Joe Cassini are credited for the early development and growth of L.A. Style Salsa[citation needed]. Later, such dancers as Alex Da Silva, Edie Lewis, Joby Martinez, Josie Neglia, Liz Lira, Johnny and Francisco Vazquez and Janette Valenzuela are often credited with developing the L.A. style of salsa dancing as we know it today[citation needed].


=== New York style ===
New York style is danced in a line similar to LA Style salsa. However, unlike LA style, it is danced on the second beat of the music ("on 2"), and the follower steps forward on the first measure of the music, not the leader. The etiquette of New York Style is strict about remaining in the "slot" and avoiding traveling dancing in a sandbox area with a lot of spins, turns and styling. There is greater emphasis on performing "shines" in which dancers separate themselves and dance solo with intricate footwork and styling for a time—suspected origins from Swing and New York Tap.
Though he did not create New York style salsa, Eddie Torres is credited with popularizing it, and for having the follower step forward on the second beat of the first measure.
There are two distinct developments of New York salsa as a music and dance genre:
Primary original evolution from Mambo era when Cuban music was introduced to New York due to influx of migrating Cuban dissidents and Latin migrants during Pre/Post Cuban Revolution in the 1950s and 1960s. This era is known as the "Palladium Era". At this time, the music and dance was called "Mambo" or "Rhumba"—connoting the general term without being specific. The most famous dancer during this era was Puerto-Rican descendant Pedro "Cuban Pete" Aguilar, also known "The King of Latin Beat".
Secondary evolution during the late 1970s, Latin migrants, particularly Puerto Ricans, contributed to the New York salsa development during the "NuYorican" era of Héctor Lavoe which greatly popularized salsa as a term and modern Latin music throughout the world. Salsa superstars were "discovered" during the era, such as Ray Baretto ("The Godfather") and Celia Cruz ("The Queen of Salsa"). There are also salsa artists that transcend both periods, notably the legendary Puerto Rican Tito Puente ("The Mambo King").
These two developments create a fusion of a new salsa music and dance genre, different than its Latin American and L.A. Style counterparts.
New York style salsa emphasizes harmony with the percussive instruments in salsa music, such as the congas, timbales, and clave, since many or all of those instruments often mark the second beat in the music.


== See also ==

Palladium Ballroom – a New York City venue that was influential in popularizing Latin music and dance during the 1940s and '50s
Rumba (dance) – an Afro-Cuban dance that heavily influenced salsa
Salsa music
World Salsa Championships


== Notes ==


== References ==
* Hutchinson, Sydney (2004). "Mambo on 2: The birth of a new form of dance in New York City.” CENTRO Journal 16(2):109-137.
Pietrobruno, Sheenagh (2006). Salsa and Its Transnational Moves. Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield, Inc.
Mikko Kemppe (2010). "Mastering the Four Most Important Rhythms in the Music".


== External links ==
About Salsa in Colombia and in Cali city.
Mambo On 2: The Birth of a New Form of Dance in New York City – an article on the development of North American style salsa, particularly New York style.
Salsa Dance: Latino/a history in motion – an academic article on salsa dancing.
A History of Salsa, a detailed history of salsa music and dance.
The Black Roots of Salsa (Trailer) – a trailer of a documentary about the African roots of salsa music and dance, especially Afro-Cuban rumba.Mohiniyattam, also spelled Mohiniattam (Malayalam: മോഹിനിയാട്ടം), is a classical dance form from Kerala, India. Believed to have originated in 16th century CE, it is one of the eight Indian classical dance forms recognised by the Sangeet Natak Akademi. It is considered a very graceful form of dance meant to be performed as solo recitals by women.
Mohiniyattam was popularised as a popular dance form in the nineteenth century by Swathi Thirunal, the Maharaja of the state of Travancore (Southern Kerala), and Vadivelu, one of the Thanjavur Quartet. Swathi Thirunal promoted the study of Mohiniyattam during his reign, and is credited with the composition of many music arrangements and vocal accompaniments that provide musical background for modern Mohiniyattam dancers. The noted Malayalam poet Vallathol, who established the Kerala Kalamandalam dance school in 1930, played an important role in popularizing Mohiniattam in the 20th century.
The term Mohiniyattam comes from the words "Mohini" meaning a woman who enchants onlookers and "aattam" meaning graceful and sensuous body movements. The word "Mohiniyattam" literally means "dance of the enchantress". There are two stories of the Lord Vishnu disguised as a Mohini. In one, he appears as Mohini to lure the asuras (demons) away from the amrita (nectar of immortality) obtained during the churning of the palazhi (ocean of milk and salt water).
In the second story Vishnu appears as Mohini to save Lord Shiva from the demon Bhasmasura. The name Mohiniyattam may have been coined after Lord Vishnu; the main theme of the dance is love and devotion to God, with usually Vishnu or Krishna being the hero. Devadasis used to perform this in temples. It also has elements of Koothu and Kottiyattom. Mohiniyattam is a drama in dance and verse.
The dance involves the swaying of broad hips and the gentle movements of erect posture from side to side. This is reminiscent of the swinging of the palm leaves and the gently flowing rivers which abound Kerala, the land of Mohiniyattam. There are approximately 40 basic movements, known as atavukal.
The three pillars — Sri Swathi Thirunal Rama Varma, Sri Vallathol Narayana Menon (a poet and founder of the institution, Kerala Kalamandalam) and Smt. Kalamandalam Kalyanikutty Amma (considered “the mother of Mohiniyattam”) — contributed to the shaping out of the contemporary Mohiniyattam during the later part of the 20th century. Guru Kallyanikutty Amma cleared the mythical mystery behind the name of this dance form and gave it the most convincing explanation based on truth, social and historical evolution, interpreting Mohiniyattam as the dance of a beautiful lady than that of a mythical enchantress from heaven.
The costume includes white sari embroidered with bright golden brocade (known as kasavu) at the edges. The dance follows the classical text of Hastha Lakshanadeepika, which has elaborate description of mudras (gestural expressions by the hand palm and fingers).
The Jewellery our traditional dancers wear is the typical complete set of Temple Golden Finish Jewellery with a proper wide Golden Lakshmi belt specially designed for Mohiniyattam. The foot steps are made tinkling with a good pair of original Chilanka or either known as Ghungroo or Dancing bells worn by the dancer on her legs. The performer also adorns herself with Fresh white Jasmine flowers which is decked to her hair bun arranged on the left side of the head pinned on to a beautiful Jurapin, which makes Mohiniyattam artists distinct from other dance forms artists of India.
The vocal music of Mohiniyattam involves variations in rhythmic structure known as chollu. The lyrics are in Manipravalam, a mixture of Sanskrit and Malayalam. The Mohiniyattam dance is performed to this accompaniment by the subtle gestures and footwork of the danseuse. The performer uses the eyes in a very coy, sensual manner to enchant the mind without enticing the senses.


== Composition ==

Basic Lessons of Mohiniyattam - Nritta or Pure dance
Mohiniyattam is a beautiful dance form of the women of Kerala and it is one of the classical dances of India too.Among the various vrithi-s (styles) detailed by Bharata Muni in his Natya Shastra, Mohiniyattam most resembles the kaisiki(graceful)type.Consisting, as it does, of gentle Angahara-s and belonging to the Lasya style which is feminine, tender and graceful: The kaisiki style is most appropriate for the erotic sentiment and its related expressions.
It has often been said that the movements of the limbs and body of the danseuse of Mohiniyattam should be gentle and graceful like the waves in a calm sea or the swaying of the paddy plants in the field, in a breeze.
To know some basic principles that govern the Mohiniyattam dance style will be of great help for all artistes and art lovers to enjoy this art form.
Like many other Indian dance forms the aspects of Mohiniyattam can be divided mainly into two - Nritha (pure dance ) and Nrithya (expository dance). When a child starts learning Mohiniyattam she /he starts first with the Nritha (pure dance).
Nritha Mandalam-s (stances), Pada bheda-s (foot variations), Padachari-s(gaits) and Nritha hasta-s(gestures) are the main parts of the pure dance patterns. Beautiful combinations of all these above mentioned are called Atavu-s. There are about 55 to 60 Atavu-s in the training pattern followed at Natanakaisiki belonging to the two major styles of Kerala, the Kalamandalam style and Guru Kalyanikuttyamma’s style.
Mandalams Basic posture of the feet is considered as one of the most important aspects of many of the dance forms.In Mohiniyattam the basic posture is known as Aramandalam. In Thiruvathirakali (a groupe dance form of Kerala women which is very closely related to Mohiniyattam)this is known as vattakkalil thanu nilkuka (means bend your leg and stand.). Most of the Atavus –the basic dance units –begin from this basic position. Even though Aramandalam is the most important one, based upon the level of the knees there are five such stances in Mohiniyattam.These are the Sama mandalam,Aramandalam, Muzhumandalam,Mukkalmandalam and Kaalmandalam.

1.Standing erect without bending the knees is called Samamandalam.
2.The knees should be bent and spread apart to form the shape of a pot.
  This is known as Aramandalam.(Vattakkal). The feet for Aramandalam 
  should be set flat on the floor about two and a half inches apart, 
  the right foot turned to the right corner and the left foot, to the left. 
  The distance between the toes being about twelve inches.
3.The third one is called Muzhumandalam.In this the knees should bent 
  and spread apart,the toes alone would touch the ground and the danseuse 
  should sit on her heels,producing a squatting stance.
4.When the knees are positioned between Muzhumandalam and Aramandalam 
  it is  called Mukkalmandalam. (the word ‘mukkal’ means three forth ).
5.When the knees are positioned in between Aramandalam and Samamandalam it is called as Kaalmandalam.
  (the word ‘Kal’ in Malayalam means one fourth).

Chari-s (gaits)In Mohiniyattam there are five different usages of Pada chari-s. They are Hamsa (swan)Padam, Kukkuda(hen)Padam, Mayoora (peacock)Padam, Mandooka (frog)Padam, and Naga (snake)bandham.
Atavus (basic dance units) Atavus are the basic units, which are sub-divisions of the pure dance in Mohiniyattam.These are created combining hand gestures, body movements, mandalam-s, footwork, and Chari-s.
When Mohiniyattam is taught, to ensure that the people develops graceful body control, it is these Atavu-s, that are practiced in the first few years of training.
Atavus have been grouped into Taganam, Jaganam, Dhaganam and Sammisram. The grouping has been done according to the Vaythari-s(syllables) used.
Unlike in Bharathanatyam, in Mohiniyattam when these Adavus are choreographed with beautiful patterns and rhythm to create beauty or to support the bhava(mood) the Vaythari-s (syllables )are always used in a raga.
Nritha choreographies In Mohiniyattam, items like Cholkettu, Jathiswarom and Thillana give greater prominence for Nritha. Cholkettu consists of stylised rhythmic syllables in tune with raga and the danseuse with pure dance patterns dances appropriate to it. Jathiswaram is an assemblage of jathi-s (syllables)and swara-s (musical notes ) within the frame work of a raga and tala. Beautiful sculpturesque postures and atavus are combined with intricate rhythm and designed to high -ight the grace of this dance style. Tillana-s have a lot of rhythmic Vaythari-s and these have been beautifully choreographed with Nritha in Mohiniyattam.
However in other items such as Varnam, Padam, Saptam, Nritha is used in between differents parts of abhinaya(enactment), as a part of the abhinaya or sometimes even to support the mood of the abhinaya. These are some details about the Nritha in Mohiniyattam. (Information courtesy) Nirmala Paniker Director, Natanakaisiki Mohiniyattam Gurukulam Natanakairali, Irinjalakuda – 680121 http://www.chintha.com/keralam/mohiniyattam-lessons.html


== External links ==
Kerala Kalamandalam
Mohiniyattam dance Jewellery and costumes
Mohiniyattam dance Chilankas or Ankle bells
Mohiniyattam Kasavu WeaverSequence dancing is a form of dance in which a preset pattern of movements is followed, usually to music which is also predetermined. Sequence dancing may include dances of many different styles. The term may include ballroom dances which move round the floor as well as line, square and circle dances.
Sequence dancing in general is much older than modern ballroom dances. With the exception of the waltz, invented around 1800, all dances in ballrooms were sequence dances until the early 20th century. After modern ballroom dancing developed, in England, sequence dancing continued. It included so-called 'Old Time' dances and also adapted versions of the new ballroom dances, and then versions of Latin dances. Sequence dancing is a competitive sport as well as a social pastime.
The British Sequence Championships is the most famous annual sequence dance competition and is part of the Blackpool Sequence Dance Festival. This is held in the Empress Ballroom, Winter Gardens, Blackpool, England, since 1949.


== Sequence dancing today ==
Modern sequence dancing has a repeat of the steps at every sixteenth bar, typically going on for five or six sequences in all. Specially performed sequence dance music in strict tempo is usually needed, although some 'ordinary' music may suffice provided it is played in 16 bar sections or sequences throughout. Ideally, sequence music will have a four bar introduction at the correct tempo and in the correct rhythm, followed by 5 or 6 sixteen bar sequences allowing all dancers to progress around the room and ending when the music finishes.
There are many different tempo types for sequence dancing, based on the classification of each dance. Each has an accepted speed of playing so that a typical programme of sequence dancing has a wide variety of activity. Sequence dances are split into 3 different sections; 'Old Time' – also occasionally seen as 'Old Tyme' – (now referred to as 'Classical'), 'Modern' or 'Latin' with the dividing line being somewhere in the early 20th century. New sequences are being devised all the time and the number which have been published as scripts is currently (in 2010) standing at over four thousand.
Old-time (Classical) dances: Old-time Waltz, Country dance, Quadrille, Galop, Polka; Saunter, Gavotte, Two Step, Mazurka, Schottische, Cakewalk.
Modern dances: Waltz, Tango, Foxtrot, Quickstep, Viennese Waltz
Latin-American dances: Rumba, Cha-cha-cha, Samba, Jive, Paso Doble, Bossa Nova, Salsa, Mambo.
Regular competitions are held between dance teachers to decide which newly created sequence dances shall be 'officially' adopted and scripted for wider distribution. Most of these are tried for a short while and then disappear into the archives. Some, just a few, find great popularity and join the select group of dances which last for several years round the dance halls. Such popular dances are the basis of practically every 'Tea Dance'. Moreover, most now consider that the best dances are the older dances, and although a few clubs still teach them, interest in the new dances now seems to be rapidly diminishing.

Most people who attend these functions will recognise Saunter Together, Mayfair Quickstep, Waltz Cathrine, Rumba One and many others. An alternative to the tea dance is the 'Dance Club'. These are devoted to the teaching and learning of all the approved new sequence dances.


=== New Vogue ===

New Vogue is a set of sequence dances which use modern ballroom technique. It was developed in Australia in the 1930s and is a danced socially and competitively across Australia and New Zealand. There are fifteen competition dances which cover March, Foxtrot, Tango and Viennese Waltz rhythms.


== Sequence dance scripts ==
These are written in a shorthand form similar to phone texting or knitting patterns. The jargon is easily learned and the shorthand can be understood. Ultra keen sequence dancers subscribe to the specialist dance script publishers who are authorised by the copyright holders to copy and distribute the scripts immediately they are issued by the competition organisers (the copyright holders). A short example of this dance scripting is as follows:
1. RF Fwd in CBMP (OP) comm to tn R * Side LF * Cls RF to LF to end bkng LOD. S Q Q.
2. LF bk dn LOD *RF Bk, R shldr ldg * Crs LF in front of RF S Q Q.


== Social element ==
Go to any sequence dance yourself and you will find that most attendees are retired persons who find it a low-cost and pleasant social occasion. They like the older tuneful melodies on which the dance music is based, and the modest exercise is good for health.
Practically all sequence dancers have a good sense of humour, and this is shown in the many self-parody leaflets which go round the dance halls in the public domain. The following poem is an example
It's the Sunday tea dance, and they'll all be here today,
Aches and pains forgotten, dance the afternoon away.
Foxtrots, quicksteps, waltzes, some are slow but some still nifty,
With memories of how it was way back in 1950.
Norman's in the toilet and he's struggling to pee,
He's got trouble with his prostate, and he'll likely miss his tea.
Eddy's got a new love that he met in Thornton Heath,
She does a lovely tango, but she hasn't any teeth.
His latest fancy footwork nearly broke his partner's neck,
She mistook his outside swivel for a travelling contra check.
Ida's had her hair done and she's ready for the saunter,
She had a vindaloo last night and it's coming back to haunt her.
Florry's mini-skirt's revealing when she's spinning in the jive,
She really shouldn't wear a thong, approaching 85.
They've had their tea and cake and chat and had a little laugh,
And gamely rise with creaking knees to face the second half.
Norman's made it back in time for rumba number one,
His cucaracha's very neat, but he's left his flies undone.
Vera's fallen over in a massive Crimplene heap,
Bert's got indigestion and Mabel's fast asleep.
It's last waltz time and up they get
For Humperdinck's old tune,
And then: 'Goodbye, good luck, take care,
God willing see you soon.'
Derek Prothero, Surrey.
Note: Humperdinck's old tune refers to 'I Had the Last Waltz With You', a 1960s hit melody.


== References ==


== External links ==
Sequence Dance Online Website
Introduction to Sequence Dancing
Sequence Dance Script Service
List of Sequence Dances
Sequence Dancing World
New Vogue scripts (15 competition dances)
an online library of sequence dance scripts"Swing dance" is most commonly known as a group of dances that developed with the swing style of jazz music in the 1920s-1950s, although the earliest of these dances predate "swing era" music. The best known of these dances is the Lindy Hop, a popular partner dance that originated in Harlem in 1927 and is still danced today. Lindy was a fusion of many dances that preceded it or were popular during its development but is mainly based on jazz, tap, breakaway and Charleston. While the majority of swing dances began in African American communities as vernacular African American dances, some swing era dances, such as the Foxtrot and the Balboa, developed in white communities. Swing dance was not always used as a general blanket term for a group of dances. Historically, the term Swing applied with no connection to the Swing era, or its Swing music. The Texas Tommy Swing dance first appeared in print in 1910 in San Francisco (Barbary Coast). Into the 1920s and 1930s every major city had their own way to dance, based on regional roots, and influences.
Los Angeles had its own form of what they called "Swing dance" which came from Charleston, Fox Trot, and Jig Trot influenced footwork. In Chicago and in the south they had their own style of Swing, which was more two-step based, and most of these regional swing dances gave way to various influences, such as other dance forms of dance but also the decline of dance bands and partner dancing after WW2.
Swing jazz features the syncopated timing associated with African American and West African music and dance — a combination of crotchets and quavers (quarter notes and eighth notes) that many swing dancers interpret as 'triple steps' and 'steps' — yet also introduces changes in the way these rhythms were played — as a distinct delay or 'relaxed' approach to timing.
Today there are swing-dance scenes in many countries. Lindy Hop is often the most popular, though each city and country prefers various dances to different degrees. Each local swing-dance community has a distinct local culture and defines "swing dance", and the "appropriate" music to accompany it, in different ways.


== Forms of Swing ==
In many scenes outside the United States, the term "swing dancing" is used to refer to one, or all, of the following swing era dances: Lindy Hop, Charleston, Shag, and Balboa. This group is often extended to include West Coast Swing, East Coast Swing, Hand Dancing, Jive, Rock and Roll, elden Jive, and other dances developed in the 1940s and later. A strong tradition of social and competitive boogie woogie and Rock 'n' Roll in Europe add these dances to their local swing dance cultures.[citation needed]


=== Early forms from the 1930s and 1940s ===
Lindy Hop evolved in the late 1920s and early 1930s out of the Partnered Charleston. It is characterized by an 8-count circular basic or "swing out" and has an emphasis on improvisation and the ability to easily adapt to include other steps in 8-count and 6-count rhythms. It has been danced to many different styles of music with blues or jazz rhythm (with the exception of jazz waltzes), as well as non-traditional styles of music such as hip hop. Lindy-Hop is characterized by tricks and high-flying arieal movements.[citation needed] Lindy Hop got its name in 1927 when a reporter visiting New York's Savoy Ballroom asked a swing dancer what kind of dance they were doing. Because Charles Lindbergh had just made his news-making solo flight across the Atlantic Ocean, the dancer replied, "the Lindy-Hop." The name stuck.
Balboa is an 8-count dance that emphasizes a strong partner connection and quick footwork. A product of Southern California's crowded ballrooms and uncrowded ballrooms, Balboa (or "Bal") is primarily danced in close embrace. A library of open figures, called Bal-Swing, evolved from LA Swing, which was another Southern California dance that was a contemporary of Balboa. While most dancers differentiate between pure Balboa and Bal-Swing, both are considered to be a part of the dance. Balboa is frequently danced to fast jazz (usually anything from 180 to 320 BPM beats per minute), though many like to Balboa to slower (170-190 BPM) tempi.[citation needed]
Collegiate Shag typically refers to a kind of double shag that is believed to have originated in New York during the 1930s. To call the dance "collegiate shag" would not have been common during the swing era; the addition of the word "collegiate" was supposedly a marketing ploy to attract college-age dancers to certain studios and dance halls. The name Collegiate Shag later became somewhat standard in the latter part of the 20th century (see swing revival), to help distinguish it from other later contemporary dances that shared the "shag" designation (e.g., Carolina Shag). Collegiate Shag was accompanied by music that emphasized a 2-beat rhythm and was danced in the varieties of single, double, and triple shag. The variety of names describe the amount of slow (step, hop) steps executed before being followed by a single quick, quick rhythm. The most common form recognized as Collegiate Shag is double-shag rhythm.[citation needed]
St. Louis Shag done in the "side-by-side" Charleston position. The steps are: two step, rock step, kick forward, step down, kick forward (other leg), stag, step, stomp (repeat). The "stag" is bringing the leg up with the knee bent. As a variation, when repeating, one can do two forward kicks (or "switch, switch", referring to switching feet) in place of the rock step.

Jitterbug is often associated with one form of swing dance, but is not in fact a general term for all swing dances and is more appropriately used to describe a swing dancer rather than a specific swing dance (i.e. a jitterbug can dance Lindy Hop, Shag, or any other swing dance). The term was famously associated with swing era dancers by band leader Cab Calloway because, as he put it, "They look like a bunch of jitterbugs out there on the floor"[citation needed] due to their fast, often bouncy movements.


=== Later forms from the 1940s, 1950s and later ===
Lindy Hop continued into the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s and is featured in many movies of the era featuring Whitey's Lindy Hoppers with Frankie Manning, Dean Collins (whose style would lead to the creation of West Coast Swing), and Hal Takier and the Ray Rand Dancers. Traditional Lindy Hop in its purest form is found in many US locations and in Sweden. Swedish Lindy Hoppers preserve much of the old-style technique which was passed on to them by Frankie Manning, through various visits in the 1980s and 1990s. Template:Pfeiffer, L. (2000). Swing King: The Legend Frankie Manning. American Visions, 15(5), 16.
Lindy Charleston is essentially the 1930s and '40s Partnered Charleston woven in and out of Lindy Hop moves. Lindy Charleston involves a number of positions, including side-by-side, hand-to-hand, and tandem Charleston. In "jockey position", the closed position is opened out so that both partners may face forward, without breaking apart. In side-by-side Charleston, partners open the closed position entirely, so that their only points of connection are at their touching hips and arm contact, wherein the leader's right hand and arm touch the follower's back and the follower's left hand and arm touch the leader's shoulder and arm. Both partners then swing their free arms as they would in solo Charleston. In both jockey and side-by-side Charleston, the leader steps back onto his left foot, while the follower steps back onto her right. In tandem Charleston, one partner stands in front of the other (usually the follower, though the arrangement may vary), both face in the same direction to start, and both begin by stepping back onto the left foot. The partner behind holds the front partner's hands at the latter's hip height, and their joined arms swing backwards and forwards, as in the basic step.
Eastern Swing is an evolution of Fox Trot.
East Coast Swing is a simpler 6-count variation of Lindy Hop, that evolved with swing-band music of the 1940s and the work of the Arthur Murray dance studios in the 1940s. It is also known as Six-count Swing, Triple-Step Swing, or Single-Time Swing. East Coast Swing has very simple structure and footwork along with basic moves and styling. It is popular for its simple nature and is often danced to slow, medium, or fast tempo jazz, blues, or rock and roll. Occasionally, Rockabilly, aka Rock-a-billy, is mistaken for East Coast Swing, but Rockabilly is more closely related to Western Swing.
West Coast Swing was developed in the 1940s, as a stylistic variation on Lindy Hop. It is a slotted and danced to a wide variety of music including: blues, rock and roll, country western, smooth and cool jazz. It is popular throughout the United States and Canada but was uncommon in Europe and much of Asia until the 21st Century. West-coast-swing communities are growing in Australia, Brazil, France, India, New Zealand, Ukraine, Romania, the United Kingdom, and elsewhere.[citation needed]
Western Swing has long been the name for jazz-influenced western music of the 1940s and, by extension, two-step, line dancing or swing dance done to such music. Contemporary 21st century Country Swing or dancing or "Country Western Swing Dancing" (C/W Swing) has a distinct culture, with classes and instructional videos on YouTube and DVD teaching dips, lifts, aerials and flips. It adds variations from other country dances, swing styles, salsa and more. As the name suggests, it is most often danced to country and western music.
Boogie-woogie developed originally in the 1940s, with the rise of boogie woogie music. It is popular today in Europe, and was considered by some to be the European counterpart to East Coast Swing, a 6-count dance standardized for the American ballroom industry. It is danced to rock music of various kinds, blues or boogie woogie music but usually not to jazz. As the dance has developed, it has also taken to 8-count variations and swing outs similar to Lindy Hop, while keeping the original boogie woogie footwork.
Carolina Shag was danced along the strands between Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, and Wilmington, North Carolina, during the 1940s but, during the 1990s and later, has expanded to many other places. It is most often associated with beach music, which refers to songs that are rhythm-and-blues-based and, according to Bo Bryan, a noted shag historian and resident of Beaufort County, is a term that was coined at Carolina Beach, North Carolina.
Imperial Swing is a cross between East Coast and West Coast Swing as it is done in slot and in the round. It started at the Club Imperial in St Louis. George Edick, who owned the club, let teenagers dance on the lower level and the swing dancers of the time taught them what was learned from their trips to the east coast. As people traveled around, they added parts of west coast, bop and Carolina shag to complement the dance and make it distinctive. People can tell the difference between St. Louis dancers and dancers from other parts of the country. "The Imperial" has elements of "East Coast", "West Coast", "Carolina Shag" and "Bop".[citation needed]
Jive is a dance of International Style Ballroom dancing. It initially was based on Eastern swing taken to England by American Troops in World War II and evolved before becoming the now standardized form of today.
Skip Jive is a British variant of the Jive, popular in the 1950s and 1960s, danced to trad jazz.
Modern Jive (also known as LeRoc and Ceroc©) developed in the 1980s, reputedly from a French form of Jive. Modern Jive is not technically of the Jive family which typically use a 6-count pattern of various combinations of walking and triple steps (Ballroom Jive - back/replace triple-triple; Swing Jive - triple-triple back/replace), etc. It is pared down to a simple box step and concentrating on the simpler forms of couple dance styling, gauged to provide a social atmosphere rather than technical aptitude. There are debates about whether it is a form of swing dancing due to lack of syncopations, rhythmic footwork variations, a static partner dynamic, and lack of swinging music, amongst the swing community at large, but they do consider themselves a style of swing.
Rock and Roll - Developing in the 1950s in response to rock and roll music, rock-and-roll is very popular in Australia and danced socially as well as competitively and in performances. The style has a long association with Lindy Hop in that country, as many of the earliest Lindy Hoppers in the early 1990s moved to Lindy Hop from a rock-and-roll tradition. There are ongoing debates about whether rock-and-roll constitutes swing dancing, particularly in reference to the music to which it is danced: there is some debate as to whether or not it swings. Despite these discussions, many of the older Lindy Hoppers are also keen rock-and-roll dancers, with rock-and-roll characterized by an older dancer (30s and older) than Lindy Hop (25 and under).
Acrobatic Rock'n'Roll Popular in Europe, acrobatic rock'n'roll is popularly associated with Russian gymnasts who took up the dance, though it is popular throughout Europe today. It is a performance dance and sport rather than a social dance, though there are people who remove the acrobatic stunts to dance it on a social level.
Washington Hand Dancing originated around Washington, DC in the mid-1950s, and a new generation of dancers started innovating and dancing to Motown music. From its very beginning, DC Hand-dance was referred to and called “DC Hand-Dance/Hand-Dancing”, “DC Swing”, “DC Style” (swing) and “fast dance” (meaning DC Hand-Dance). This is the first time a version of “swing” dance was termed “hand-dance/hand-dancing”. DC Hand-Dance is characterized by very smooth footwork and movements, and close-in and intricate hand-turns, danced to a 6-beat, 6-count dance rhythm. The more modern footwork consists of smooth and continuous floor contact, sliding and gliding-type steps versus hopping and jumping-type steps of the older style which stylistically still held elements of its Jitterbug/Lindy Hop roots, and there are no aerials.
Push and Whip are Texas forms of swing dance developed in the 1940s and 1950s. They are slotted swing dances, danced to a wide variety of music including blues, pop, jazz, and rock and roll. Similar to West Coast Swing, they emphasize the closed position, double resistance/rock step, and lead-follow. Slow Whip is a variation on Whip/Push that is danced to slow blues music, typically 60 BPM or slower.


== Competition, social dancing and music ==


=== Competition ===
Traditionally, distinctions are made between "Ballroom Swing" and "Jazz Dance Swing" styles. East Coast Swing is a standardized dance in "American Style" Ballroom dancing, while Jive is a standardized dance in "International Style"; however both of these fall under the "Ballroom Swing" umbrella.
Jazz Dance forms (evolved in dance halls) versus ballroom forms (created for ballroom competition format) are different in appearance. Jazz Dance forms include Lindy Hop, Balboa, Collegiate Shag, and Charleston.


==== Types of Competition ====
Dance competitions specify which forms are to be judged, and are generally available in four different formats:
Strictly: One couple competing together in various heats, to randomly selected music, where no pre-choreographed steps are allowed.
Jack and Jill: Where leaders and followers are randomly matched for the competition. In initial rounds, leaders and followers usually compete individually, but in final rounds, scoring depends on the ability of the partner you draw and your ability to work with that partner. Some competitions hold a Jill-and-Jack division where leaders must be women and followers must be men.
Showcase: One couple competing together for a single song which has been previously choreographed.
Classic: Similar to Showcase but with restrictions on lifts, drops, moves where one partner supports the weight of the other partner, and moves where the partners are not in physical contact.


==== Judging Criteria ====
Each form of Swing Dance, and each organization within those forms, will have various rules, but those most often used are pulled and adapted from Ballroom usage.
Judging for competition is based on the three "T's" (below) as well as showmanship (unless the contest in question designates the audience as the deciding factor). The three "T's" consist of:
Timing - Related to tempo & rhythm of the music.
Teamwork - How well a leader and follower dance together and lead/follow dance variations.
Technique - How clean and precise the cooperative dancing is executed.
Showmanship consists of presentation, creativity, costumes, and difficulty.
It should be noted that Lindy Hop's most prestigious events have never used these criteria, usually having the simple judging value as who was the best/most-impressive Lindy Hop couple. The Harvest Moon Ball competition in New York City, The American Vernacular Jazz Institute's Hellzapoppin' Competition, and the Ultimate Lindy Hop Showdown all fall into this category.


==== Team Formations ====
Additionally a "Team Formation" division may also be specified at a competition. Under this category, a minimum of 3 to 5 couples (depending on individual competition rules) perform a pre-choreographed routine to a song of their choosing, where the group dances in synchronization and into different formations. This division is also judged using the three "T's" and showmanship; however the criteria now apply to the team as a whole.


=== Social swing dancing ===
Many, if not most, of the swing dances listed above are popular as social dances, with vibrant local communities that hold dances with DJs and live bands that play music most appropriate for the preferred dance style. There are frequently active local clubs and associations, classes with independent or studio-/school-affiliated teachers and workshops with visiting or local teachers. Most of these dance styles — as with many other styles — also feature special events, such as camps or Lindy exchanges.




== See also ==
Frankie Manning
Lindy Hop today
Hollywood-style Lindy Hop
Savoy-style Lindy Hop
Lindy Exchange
Yehoodi
Charleston
Balboa (dance)
Swing Rueda
West Coast Swing
Herräng Dance Camp


== References ==


== External links ==
DanceCal.com - DanceCal, a list of Swing camps and weekend events
NASDE.com - National Association of Swing Dance Events
SwingDanceCouncil.com - World Swing Dance Council WSDCCountry/western dance, also called Country and Western dance, encompasses many dance forms or styles, which are typically danced to country-western music, and which are stylistically associated with American country and/or western traditions. Many of these dances were "tried and true" dance steps that had been "put aside" for many years, and became popular under the name(s) "country-western", "cowboy", or "country". Country dancing is also known as "kicker dancing" in Texas.


== Dances ==
Western couple dancing is a form of social dance. Many different dances are done to country-western music. These dances include: Two Step, Waltz, Cowboy or Traveling Cha Cha, Polka, Ten Step (also known as Ten Step Polka), Schottische, and other Western promenade dances, East Coast Swing, West Coast Swing, and Nightclub Two Step. The Two Step and various Western promenade or pattern couples dances are unique to country western dancing.
Western group dances include the following:
Line dance
Square dance
Traditional square dance
Modern Western square dance

Country dancing is informal. Because of cowboy boots, country western dance is more likely to feature a flat-footed glide with some heel and toe touches rather than a lot of "toe type" dancing. In addition to a quiet upper body, there is very little hip movement. Pumping of the hands, bouncing, and waddling are not encouraged.
Cowboy, or "country" waltz consists of gliding steps that are consistent with wearing cowboy boots, rather than "on the balls of the feet" quick steps of the classic version. Neither foot is lifted completely from the ground. Steps should be a light footed glide rather than a flat footed shuffle.
There are many versions of each dance. They may go by different names depending on the area of the U.S., and even in the particular dance hall. There may be no one "correct" way to a particular dance.


== Dance floor etiquette ==
Several types of dancing may take place simultaneously at country western dances. Progressive dancers use the outside of the floor. Swing and other non progressive dancers are found either in the outside corners, or in the center of the floor, along with line dancers.


== Lead and follow ==
Traditionally the man set the pace, established the length of stride, and decided when to change step, and the woman followed. A woman having more dance skills sometimes provided a tactful guiding push or pull, as long as it wasn't obvious. As soon as the man learns the routine, he takes the lead by combining firm, but gentle (never obvious) pushes and pulls. The leader should move assertively, and the follower should duplicate the countermovements, or perform her part of the dance. A photograph from one early "stag" dance shows a "closed" dance position, with the "man's" right arm around the back of the "woman".
In frontier days men danced with each other when women were not available. According to an early settler in Texas, "The gentle sex were few in number at the dance... Two men had to dance together to make a set." Another account states that "due to the scarcity of young women, a number of young bachelors who were either smooth shaven or wore polished shoes were designated as ladies." There were also "stag" dances with no women. "Heifer branded" men, those dancing the woman's role, wore handkerchiefs tied around one arm. At other times men dancing the role of the woman wore aprons. Miners in the California Gold Rush danced with one another if ladies were not available.


== History ==
From the earliest days, the dances and the music that accompanied them were brought to The United States by the people of the British Isles, continental Europe, and Africa. The Virginia Reel, based on the "Sir Roger de Coverly" became popular after the French Revolution. Quadrilles, too, including the cotillon, anglicized as cotillion, were brought to America by French dancing masters. Their influence survives in terms used in square dancing. One 1774 account states that "Betwixt the country dances they have what I call everlasting Jigs. A couple gets up and begins to cut a jig (to some Negro tune). Others come and cut them out, and these dances always last as long as the fidler can play." Another author wrote of whites doing "giggs". Southern wrote that "the whites themselves, and especially the younger ones, were apt to move into reels and jigs at their own dances after a few perfunctory bows in the direction of "society sets" such as minuets and cotillions.
In the early 19th century larger farm houses had dance rooms built in along the back of the second story. In smaller houses the kitchen was used for dancing. "Junkets" (sometimes known as "heel-burners") were casual affairs. Town halls were also used for gatherings. These dances would last from mid-afternoon through the next morning.
Early solo dancing was composed mostly of extemporaneous jigging done by men. The term "jig" has been used to describe various forms of solo dance steps, as well as music, and has not been well defined. Jigs, clogs, shuffles, leaps, heel clicking, hornpipes, and other step dances may have come from various ethnic traditions, or nothing more than an individual improvisation. Other early terms used to describe either solo dancing or steps done as part of a circle or square dance were buck-and-wing, flat-footing, double shuffle, hoedown, and breakdown.
In the early 19th century Richmond, Virginia held an annual event at the conclusion of a week of horse racing, the Race Ball, which began with a stately minuet, immediately followed by "the reel, like a storm after a calm." Music provided by two black musicians was quite "fast and furious" with the dancers doing "all sorts of capers" to reels, contradances, congos, hornpipes, and jigs.
Dances on the prairie frontier included the scamperdown, double shuffle, western-swing, and double shuffle.
"Making the splinters fly" along with rapid clatter and thumping was often heard at frontier parties, either as side entertainment at the dance parties, or in contests. A Texan "stag dance" held in 1829 included jigs and hornpipes accompanied by patting juba. Music was often provided by fiddlers, many of whom were black, or with improvised "instruments": clevis and pin, scraping on a cotton hoe with a knife, patting of the foot, blowing on a comb through a thin piece of paper, tapping against drinking glasses, or even blowing on a peach leaf. Military bands and string bands were used in larger towns and/or on special occasions.
"Frolics" were community events often associated with events such as corn shucking, house raising, etc., with a feast and dancing at the end of the labors. A fiddler, often a black man, was the main source of music for dance music. The banjo, too, derived from earlier African instruments, was also important. Reels, square dances, waltzes, polkas and other couple dances were performed with a spirit of freedom and improvisation, "all so mingled that it is a dance without name".
Popular reels, danced with a partner, included Lady Walpole's Reel, aka Boston Fancy, Lady Washington's Reel and Speed the Plow. In the 1890s the Devil's Dream was popular, and bore a decided resemblance to the "Old Zip Coon". In the late 19th century a type of dance known as "swinging" appeared. It involved couples who danced with their hands on each other's waists or shoulders and twirled around the floor at a breakneck pace. The dance was frowned upon by etiquette experts.
In West Texas dances were referred to as "country dances", or sometimes "ranch dances" because they were held at ranches, and were a significant institution in the life of many Americans. Dances for people in very small areas lasted the evening, whereas "all night dances" involved people who could not return home the same day. While children slept, adults danced and socialized until morning. Cowboys did the cooking at these events, serving a midnight meal. Musicians usually played where several rooms in a house came together, often facing the two "main rooms". When crowds

Hip-hop Dance

10 Most Famous Dance Styles
Hip-hop dance refers to “Street Dance” styles primarily performed to hip-hop music or that have evolved as part of hip-hop culture. It includes a wide range of styles primarily breaking, locking, and popping which were created in the 1970s and made popular by dance crews in the United States. This dance style, usually danced to hip hop music that evolved from the hip hop culture. Hip dance consists primarily of moves executed close to the ground.

Tap Dance

Tap Dancers
Tap dance is a form of dance characterized by a tapping sound that is created from metal plates that are attached to both the ball and heel of the dancer’s shoe. Special shoes are made for dancing the tap. These metal plates, when tapped against a hard surface, create a percussive sound and as such the dancers are considered to be musicians. Tap dance has roots in African American dancing such as the Juba Dance, English Lancashire Clog dancing, and probably most notably Irish stepdancing. It is believed to have begun in the mid-1800s during the rise of minstrel shows.

Yangko Dance

Yangko Dancers
The Yangko dance is a traditional folk dance of the Han Chinese. It originated from China and happens to be a popular part of their culture. It involves swaying of the body to certain rhythms. The waist and the hip are used to drive feet in order to sync with the music. The dance has a one thousand year history in China and is usually performed in the Lantern Festival. You can see a lot of videos on YouTube concerning the dance. Yangko has changed since its inception and the one that we see now happens to come from the late 1940s.

Belly Dance

Belly Dancer
Belly dance is a Western-coined name for a “traditional West Asian” dance, especially Raqs Sharqi. It is sometimes also called Middle Eastern dance or Arabic dance in the West. The term “Belly dance” is a misnomer as every part of the body is involved in the dance. The most featured body part being the hips. It basically originated from Middle East. For me no one does it better than Shakira. Belly dance was popularized in the West during the Romantic movement of the 18th and 19th centuries, when Orientalist artists depicted romanticized images of harem life in the Ottoman Empire.
Kathak is one of the eight forms of Indian classical dances, originated from India. This dance form traces its origins to the nomadic bards of ancient northern India, known as Kathakars or storytellers. Its form today contains traces of temple and ritual dances, and the influence of the bhakti movement. From the 16th century onwards it absorbed certain features of Persian dance and central asian dance . The name of the dance is derived from Sanskrit which means story. The classical dances can be compared to the ballet dances. These dances are very complicated and usually have a meaning to them. Just like the name, they are supposed to tell some sort of a story. For me no one does it better than Madhuri Dixit.

Gangnam Style

Gangnam Style Dance
The phrase “Gangnam Style” is a Korean neologism that refers to a lifestyle associated with the Gangnam District of Seoul. The song and its accompanying music video went viral in August 2012 and have influenced popular culture worldwide since then. “Gangnam Style” received mixed to positive reviews, with praise going to its catchy beat and PSY’s amusing dance moves in the music video and during live performances in various locations around the world have become a phenomenon and become a famous dance style now.

Break Dance or B-boying

B-boying
Break Dance or B-boying or B-girling is a form of street dancing style popularize by Michale Jackson. The dance consists of four primary elements: toprock, downrock, power moves and freezes/suicides. This style of dance is very acrobatic and has elements of gymnastics in it, this style of dance calls for strength, skill, balance and technique amongst other things. A practitioner of this dance is called a b-boy, b-girl, or breaker. These terms are preferred by the majority of the pioneers and most notable practitioners.

Ballet

Ballet Dancers
This is a performance dance and it originated in Italy during the fifteenth century. The dance developed in France and Russia and evolved from performance dance to concert dance. It is a very complicated form of dancing and is taught in different ballet schools all over the world. The dance is usually choreographed with vocal or orchestral music. It involves pointe work, flow and very precise acrobatic movements. The ballet went from romantic, to expressionist and neoclassical ballet. The word originally translates into ‘to dance’.

Salsa

Salsa Couple Dance
Salsa is a syncretic dance genre from Cuba. Salsa is normally a partner dance, although there are recognized solo forms. Salsa is usually danced to the salsa music although most people perform the steps with Latin American music as well. Salsa requires a couple, although you can choreograph it as a form of line dance in which a partner might not be necessary. You can perform salsa as an improvisation but generally it is choreographed. This dance style is very popular throughout the Latin America and over time it spread through North America, Europe, Australia, Asia and the Middle East.

Line Dance

Line Dance
A line dance is a choreographed dance with a repeated sequence of steps in which a group of people dance in one or more lines or rows without regard for the gender of the individuals, all facing the same direction, and executing the steps at the same time. Line dancers are not in physical contact with each other. Older “line dances” have lines in which the dancers face each other, or the “line” is a circle, or all dancers in the “line” follow a leader around the dance floor; while holding the hand of the dancers beside them.

