Fashion design is the art of the application of design and aesthetics or natural beauty to clothing and accessories. Fashion design is influenced by cultural and social latitudes, and has varied over time and place. Fashion designers work in a number of ways in designing clothing and accessories; and, because of the time required to bring a garment onto the market, must at times anticipate changing consumer tastes.
Fashion designers attempt to design clothes which are functional as well as aesthetically pleasing. They must consider who is likely to wear a garment and the situations in which it will be worn. They have a wide range and combinations of materials to work with and a wide range of colors, patterns and styles to choose from. Though most clothing worn for everyday wear falls within a narrow range of conventional styles, unusual garments are usually sought for special occasions such as evening wear or party dresses.
Some clothes are made specifically for an individual, as in the case of haute couture or bespoke tailoring. Today, most clothing is designed for the mass market, especially casual and every-day wear.


== Structure ==
Fashion designers can work in a number of many ways. Fashion designers may work full-time for one fashion as 'in-house designers' which owns the designs. They may work alone or as part of a team. Freelance designers work for themselves, selling their designs to fashion houses, directly to shops, or to clothing manufacturers. The garments bear the buyer's label. Some fashion designers set up their own labels, under which their designs are marketed. Some fashion designers are self-employed and design for individual clients. Other high-fashion designers cater to specialty stores or high-fashion department stores. These designers create original garments, as well as those that follow established fashion trends. Most fashion designers, however, work for apparel manufacturers, creating designs of men’s, women’s, and children’s fashions for the mass market. Large designer brands which have a 'name' as their brand such as Abercrombie & Fitch, Justice, or Juicy are likely to be designed by a team of individual designers under the direction of a designer director.


== Designing a garment ==
Fashion designers work in different ways. Some sketch their ideas on paper, while others drape fabric on a dress form. When a designer is completely satisfied with the fit of the toile (or muslin), he or she will consult a professional pattern maker who then makes the finished, working version of the pattern out of card or via a computerized system. The pattern maker's job is very precise and painstaking. The fit of the finished garment depends on their accuracy. Finally, a sample garment is made up and tested on a model to make sure it is an operational outfit. Myriam Chalek, owner and founder of Creative Business House explains that most of the time fashion designers only have a fashion concept; the technicality and construction is not thought through during the visual conception and sketching process. Hence, the fashion designer needs to meet with a pattern maker and sample maker to figure out if the sketch on paper can be brought to life according its vision.


== History ==

Fashion design is generally considered to have started in the 19th century with Charles Frederick Worth who was the first designer to have his label sewn into the garments that he created. Before the former draper set up his maison couture (fashion house) in Paris, clothing design and creation was handled by largely anonymous seamstresses, and high fashion descended from that worn at royal courts. Worth's success was such that he was able to dictate to his customers what they should wear, instead of following their lead as earlier dressmakers had done. The term couturier was in fact first created in order to describe him. While all articles of clothing from any time period are studied by academics as costume design, only clothing created after 1858 are considered as fashion design.
It was during this period that many design houses began to hire artists to sketch or paint designs for garments. The images were shown to clients, which was much cheaper than producing an actual sample garment in the workroom. If the client liked their design, they ordered it and the resulting garment made money for the house. Thus, the tradition of designers sketching out garment designs instead of presenting completed garments on models to customers began as an economy.


== Types of fashion ==
The garments produced by clothing manufacturers fall into three main categories, although these may be split up into additional, more specific categories


=== Haute couture ===

Until the 1950s, fashion clothing was predominately designed and manufactured on a made-to-measure or haute couture basis (French for high-sewing), with each garment being created for a specific client. A couture garment is made to order for an individual customer, and is usually made from high-quality, expensive fabric, sewn with extreme attention to detail and finish, often using time-consuming, hand-executed techniques. Look and fit take priority over the cost of materials and the time it takes to make. Due to the high cost of each garment, haute couture makes little direct profit for the fashion houses, but is important for prestige and publicity.


=== Ready-to-wear (pret-a-porter) ===

Ready-to-wear clothes are a cross between haute couture and mass market. They are not made for individual customers, but great care is taken in the choice and cut of the fabric. Clothes are made in small quantities to guarantee exclusivity, so they are rather expensive. Ready-to-wear collections are usually presented by fashion houses each season during a period known as Fashion Week. This takes place on a city-wide basis and occurs twice a year. The main seasons of Fashion Week include, spring/summer, fall/winter, resort, swim, and bridal.


=== Mass market ===

Currently the fashion industry relies more on mass market sales. The mass market caters for a wide range of customers, producing ready-to-wear garments using trends set by the famous names in fashion. They often wait around a season to make sure a style is going to catch on before producing their own versions of the original look. In order to save money and time, they use cheaper fabrics and simpler production techniques which can easily be done by machine. The end product can therefore be sold much more cheaply.
There is a type of design called "kutch" design originated from the German word "kitschig" meaning "ugly" or "not aesthetically pleasing." Kitsch can also refer to "wearing or displaying something that is therefore no longer in fashion." Often, high-waisted trousers, associated with the 1980s, are considered a "kitsch" fashion statement.


== Income ==
Median annual wages for salaried fashion designers were $61,160 in May 2008. The middle 50 percent earned between $42,150 and $87,120. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $32,150, and the highest 10 percent earned more than $124,780. Median annual earnings were $52,860 (£28,340) in apparel, piece goods, and notions - the industry employing the largest numbers of fashion designers.


== Fashion education ==

There are a number of well known specialized art schools and design schools worldwide that offer degrees in fashion design and fashion design technology. Some colleges also offer Masters of Fashion courses. Though it is not a requirement to have a Masters level degree, it is recommended by those already working in the industry to study at this level.
The most notable design schools in the world include:
Bangladesh
Shanto-Mariam University of Creative Technology, Dhaka
BGMEA Institute of Fashion & Technology, Dhaka

Belgium
Royal Academy of Fine Arts (Antwerp)

France
IFA Paris

Georgia
Tbilisi State Academy of Arts

Germany
AMD Academy of Fashion and Design
Berlin University of the Arts
HTW Berlin
University of the Arts Bremen
Kunstakademie Düsseldorf
Giebichenstein Castle Academy of Arts in Halle
Academy of Fine Arts, Karlsruhe
Academy of Fine Arts, Munich
Academy of Fine Arts, Nuremberg
Design Hochschule Schwerin

Italy
Istituto Marangoni
Politecnico of Milan
Istituto Europeo di Design
University Iuav of Venice

Great Britain
England
London
Istituto Marangoni
London College of Fashion
Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design
University of Westminster
Kingston University

University of Brighton
De Montfort University
Richmond University
Bradford College

Scotland
The Glasgow School of Art
Edinburgh College of Art

Ireland
Limerick School of Art and Design
National College of Art and Design

India
National Institute of Fashion Technology
Pearl Academy of Fashion
Apeejay Institute of Design

Pakistan
Pakistan Institute of Fashion and Design

Romania
Art and Design University of Cluj-Napoca

U.S.
Academy of Art University in San Francisco, California
Kent State University in Kent, Ohio
Columbia College Chicago in Chicago, Illinois
Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City, New York
Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising in Los Angeles, California
O'More College of Design in Franklin, Tennessee
Otis College of Art & Design in Los Angeles, California
Parsons The New School for Design in New York City, New York
Philadelphia University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Pratt Institute in New York City, New York
Savannah College of Art and Design in Savannah, Georgia
School of the Art Institute of Chicago in Chicago, Illinois
Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia
Woodbury University in Burbank, California

Elsewhere in the world, the National Institute of Fashion Technology in India, Shih Chien University in Taiwan, RMIT University in Melbourne, Fu Jen Catholic University in Taiwan and the Asian University chain, Raffles College of Design and Commerce, all have reputable fashion design courses.
There are many universities that offer fashion design throughout the United States, usually within the context of a general liberal arts degree. The major concentration incorporating fashion design may have alternative names like Apparel and Textiles or Apparel and Textile Design, and may be housed in departments such as Art and Art History, or Family and Consumer Studies. Some schools, such as Parsons, offer a major in Fashion Management, combining fashion education with business courses.
The only Ivy League University having a Fashion Design undergraduate program is Cornell University in Ithaca, New York, a program offered by the department of Fiber Science & Apparel Design. Cornell also offers a PhD program in apparel design.
An updated list of fashion design masters and PhD programs can be found at ITAA.org. The programs are intended to address the needs of academia, industry, and research by considering apparel design as an applied science that embraces design, technology, physical sciences, the humanities, and social sciences in order to meet the human needs for clothing.


== Areas of Fashion Design ==


== World fashion industry ==
Fashion today is a global industry, and most major countries have a fashion industry. China and Bangladesh are the biggest manufacturers of fashion industry. Other notable manufacturing countries are Germany, Indonesia, Malaysia, India, Philippines, South Korea, Spain, and Brazil.
Seven countries have established an international reputation in fashion: France, Italy, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan, and Belgium.


=== American fashion design ===
The majority of American fashion houses are based in New York City, with a high concentration centered in the Garment District neighborhood. There are also a significant number in Los Angeles, where a substantial percentage of high fashion clothing manufactured in the United States is actually made. Burgeoning industries in Miami, Chicago, Dallas, and especially San Francisco have developed as well. A semi-annual event held every February and September, New York Fashion Week is one of four major fashion weeks held throughout the world.
American fashion design is dominated by a clean-cut, urban, casual style; reflecting the athletic, health-conscious lifestyles of urban city-dwellers. A designer who helped to set the trend in the United States for sport-influenced day wear throughout the 1940s and 50s was Claire McCardell. Many of her designs have been revived in recent decades. Famous American brands and designers include Vera Wang, Calvin Klein, Bob Mackie, Ralph Lauren, Carolina Herrera, Michael Kors, Marc Jacobs, Tom Ford, Tommy Hilfiger, Oleg Cassini, Perry Ellis, Kenneth Cole, Donna Karan, Liz Claiborne, and Nolan Miller.


=== Belgian Fashion design ===
In the late 80s and early 90s, Belgian fashion designers brought a new fashion image that mixed East and West, and brought a higly individualised, personal vision on fashion. Well known Belgian Designers are Maison Martin Margiela, Ann Demeulemeester, Dries Van Noten, Dirk Bikkembergs, Dirk Van Saene, Walter Van Beirendonck, Raf Simons, Tim Van Steenbergen, Peter Piloto, A.F. Vandevorst, Bruno Pieters, Angelo Figus, Christian Wijnants, and Bernhard Wilhelm.


=== British fashion design ===
London has long been the capital of the United Kingdom fashion industry and has a wide range of foreign designs which have integrated with modern British styles. Typical, British design is smart but innovative yet recently has become more and more unconventional, fusing traditional styles with modern techniques. Vintage styles play an important role in the British fashion and styling industry. Stylists regularly 'mix and match' the old with the new, which gives British style that unique, bohemian aesthetic that many of the other fashion capitals try to imitate. Irish fashion (both design and styling) is also heavily influenced by fashion trends from Britain. Famous British brands and designers include Burberry, Alexander McQueen, Mulberry, Stella McCartney, Thomas Pink, Jimmy Choo, Alfred Dunhill, Fred Perry, and Vivienne Westwood.


=== French fashion design ===

Most French fashion houses are in Paris, which is the capital of French fashion. Traditionally, French fashion is chic and stylish, defined by its sophistication, cut, and smart accessories. French fashion is internationally acclaimed.


=== German fashion design ===

Berlin is the center of young and creative fashion in Germany (prominently displayed at Berlin Fashion Week), while Düsseldorf helds Europe's largest fashion trade fairs. Other important centers of the scene are Munich, Hamburg, and Cologne. German fashion is famed for its elegant lines as well as unconventional young designs and the great variety of styles.
Globally renowned fashion designers from Germany are Karl Lagerfeld, Hugo Boss, Wolfgang Joop, Jil Sander, Michael Michalsky, Etienne Aigner, Rudolph Moshammer, Torsten Amft, Willy Bogner, Rudolf, and Adi Dassler.
Famous fashion brands include BOSS, adidas, PUMA, Escada, JOOP!, MCM, Bruno Banani, Sander, Triumph, Talbot Runhof, Kaviar Gauche, Schiesser, Closed, Reusch, Valisere, Jack Wolfskin, Ulla Popken, Buffalo, Rohde, Zalando, Dr. Martens, P&C, Marc O'Polo, Tom Tailor, s.Oliver, Esprit, and Wunderkind.
There also is a range of fashion models from Germany that made it to international fame, such as Claudia Schiffer, Heidi Klum, Diane Kruger, Eva Padberg, Toni Garrn, Julia Stegner, Kirsten Dunst, Tatjana Patitz, Manon von Gerkan, Nico, Uschi Obermaier, Lena Gercke, Sara Nuru, Barbara Meier, Nadja Auermann, Claudia Ciesla, Aslı Bayram, Shermine Shahrivar, Evelyn Sharma, and Nico Schwanz.


=== Italian fashion design ===

Milan is Italy's fashion capital. Most of the older Italian couturiers are in Rome. However, Milan and Florence are the Italian fashion capitals, and it is the exhibition venue for their collections. Italian fashion features casual elegance.


=== Japanese fashion design ===
Most Japanese fashion houses are in Tokyo. The Japanese look is loose and unstructured (often resulting from complicated cutting), colours tend to the sombre and subtle, and richly textured fabrics. Famous Japanese designers are Yohji Yamamoto, Kenzo, Issey Miyake (masterful drape and cut), and Comme des Garçons's Rei Kawakubo, who developed a new way of cutting (comparable to Madeleine Vionnet's innovation in the 1930s).


=== Soviet fashion design ===

Fashion in the Soviet Union largely followed general trends of the Western world. However, the state’s socialist ideology consistently moderated and influenced these trends. In addition, shortages of consumer goods meant that the general public did not have ready access to pre-made fashion.


=== Swiss fashion design ===
Most of the Swiss fashion houses are in Zürich. The Swiss look is casual elegant and luxurious with a slight touch of quirkiness. Additionally, it has been greatly influenced by the dance club scene.


== Fashion design terms ==
A fashion designer conceives garment combinations of line, proportion, color, and texture. While sewing and pattern-making skills are beneficial, they are not a pre-requisite of successful fashion design. Most fashion designers are formally trained or apprenticed.
A technical designer works with the design team and the factories overseas to ensure correct garment construction, appropriate fabric choices and a good fit. The technical designer fits the garment samples on a fit model, and decides which fit and construction changes to make before mass-producing the garment.
A pattern maker (or pattern cutter) drafts the shapes and sizes of a garment's pieces. This may be done manually with paper and measuring tools or by using a CAD computer software program. Another method is to drape fabric directly onto a dress form. The resulting pattern pieces can be constructed to produce the intended design of the garment and required size. Formal training is usually required for working as a pattern marker.
A tailor makes custom designed garments made to the client's measure; especially suits (coat and trousers, jacket and skirt, et cetera). Tailors usually undergo an apprenticeship or other formal training.
A textile designer designs fabric weaves and prints for clothes and furnishings. Most textile designers are formally trained as apprentices and in school.
A stylist co-ordinates the clothes, jewelry, and accessories used in fashion photography and catwalk presentations. A stylist may also work with an individual client to design a coordinated wardrobe of garments. Many stylists are trained in fashion design, the history of fashion, and historical costume, and have a high level of expertise in the current fashion market and future market trends. However, some simply have a strong aesthetic sense for pulling great looks together.
A fashion buyer selects and buys the mix of clothing available in retail shops, department stores, and chain stores. Most fashion buyers are trained in business and/or fashion studies.
A seamstress sews ready-to-wear or mass-produced clothing by hand or with a sewing machine, either in a garment shop or as a sewing machine operator in a factory. She (or he) may not have the skills to make (design and cut) the garments, or to fit them on a model.
A teacher of fashion design teaches the art and craft of fashion design in art or fashion school.
A custom clothier makes custom-made garments to order, for a given customer.
A dressmaker specializes in custom-made women's clothes: day, cocktail, and evening dresses, business clothes and suits, trousseaus, sports clothes, and lingerie.
An illustrator draws and paints clothing designs for commercial use.
A fashion forecaster predicts what colours, styles and shapes will be popular ("on-trend") before the garments are on sale in stores.
A model wears and displays clothes at fashion shows and in photographs.
A fit model aids the fashion designer by wearing and commenting on the fit of clothes during their design and pre-manufacture. Fit models need to be a particular size for this purpose.
A fashion journalist writes fashion articles describing the garments presented or fashion trends, for magazines or newspapers.
An alterations specialist (alterationist) adjusts the fit of completed garments, usually ready-to-wear, and sometimes re-styles them. NOTE: despite tailors altering garments to fit the client, not all alterationists are tailors.

Accessory, Accolade, Adjustment, Adopt, Advance, Affect, Affectation, Allure, Alteration, Antique, Apparel, Appeal, Applaud, Applique, Appraise, Apron, Array, Artificial, Artistry, Attire, Attract, Attractive, Audience, Availability, Avid, Award
B)	Backdrop, Ballet-length, Bargain, Basic blank, Batik, Beading, Beautiful, Becoming, Bias-cut, Blend, Bodice, Bold, Boutique, Bows, Braiding, Brand, Breathable, Brocade, Bulky, Bustle, Buttons
C)	Cachet, Camisole, Career, Casual, Catwalk, Celebrities, Cheap, Chemise, Choices, Classic, Client, Cloche, Clothing, Collection, Collector, Color, Combination, Comfortable, Commercial, Competition, Condition, Conformity, Conservation, Conservative, Construction, Consumer, Contemporary, Corset, Cosmetics, Costly, Couture, Cowl neck, Craftsmanship, Creative, Crimp, Culottes, Current, Cut
D)	Daring, Darn, Dated, Dealer, Decolte, Decorative, Delivery, Demand, Department, Design, Designer, Desirable, Device, Devise, Devotee, Different, Dimension, Direction, Display, Distinctive, Dominate, Dramatic, Dresses, Dressing, Dressy, Duster, Dye
E)	Ease, Easy, Ecru, Edge, Effect, Effective, Elaborate, Elegance, Embellish, Embroidery, Emphasis, Enhance, Ensemble, Enthusiastic, Eponymous, Especially, Etiquette, Evening gown, Exclusive, Expensive, Experiment, Extensions, Extraordinary, Extreme
F)	Fabric, Fad, Fashion, Fashionable, Favored, Feature, Fiber, Financial, Finery, Fit, Flamboyant, Flattering, Flawless, Flow, Focus, Folded, Form, Formal, Foulard, Fragrance, Frequently, Fringe, Frivolous, Frock, Frog, Frumpy, Function, Furs, Futuristic
G)	Garment, Garter, Genius, Gild, Glitter, Glossy, Goods, Gown, Grunge, Guide, Guru
H)	Hair, Halter, Hand-made, Handbag, Handbag, Handwork, Hanger, Hat pin, Haute-couture, High heels, High-quality, High-style, Hippie, Horizontal, Hose, Hue
I)	Identity, Illustration, Imaginative, Immediate, Impeccable, Imprint, Independent, Indicator, Indispensable, Industry, Inexpensive, Influence, Innovate, Inset, Inspection, Inspiration, Intricate, Item
J)	Jacket, Jeans, Jersey, Jewelry, Jumper
K)	Knee-length, Knickers, Knit
L)	Label, Lace, Lenses, Leotard, Limited, Lingerie, Lining, Long-lasting, Look, Luxurious, Luxury
M)	Macrame, Mainstream, Make up, Mannequin, Manufacture, Matronly, Maven, Measurement, Midriff, Minaudiere, Minimalist, Mode, Model, Modern, Modest, Modification, Modish, Motif, Movement
N)	Necessity, Neckline, Niche, Noteworthy
O)	Old-fashioned,  One-of-a-kind, Original, Ornamentation, Ostentatious, Outfit, Outlet, Outrageous, Oversize
P)	Padding, Palette, Paparazzi, Parasol, Passe, Pastel, Pattern, Pedal pushers, Peignoir, Petticoat, Phenomenon, Photographer, Photography, Piece, Piping, Pleated, Plumage, Ply, Popular, Pose, Possibilities, Posture, Practical, Precise, Prediction, Preference, Pret-a-porter, Price, Print, Prize, Production, Prominent, Proportion, Provenance, Pumps, Purchase, Purse
Q)	Quality, Quantity
R)	Radical, Rag, Ready-made, Recognition, Replacement, Replicate, Represent, Requests, Resistance, Restoration, Retailer, Revealing, Review, Ribbons, Risk-taker, Rivalry, Roll, Ruffles, Runway
S)	Sari, Sarong, Savvy, Screened, Seamstress, Sequin, Sewing, Shade, Shape, Shawl, Sheer, Shift, Showcase, Showroom, Showy, Shrinkage, Signature, Simple, Skillful, Skirt, Sleeveless, Slip, Smile, Smock, Society, Soft, Sophisticated, Spats, Special, Sportswear, Staff, Stain, Stain-resistant, Stitching, Stock, Stole, Stretching, Stride, Strut, Studio, Style, Stylish, Stylist, Substitute, Subtle, Sun-dress, Swim-wear, Swingy, Synthetic
T)	Tailor, Tailored, Talent, Tapestry, Tassel, Tasteful, Tatting, Technique, Textile, Texture, Tiara, Tie-dye, Tiered, Tones, Touch, Trade, , Trend,  Tuft, Tunic, Turban, Twill, Typify
U)	
V)	Valuable, Value, Variety, Veil, Version, Vintage, Visual, Vogue

Black tank.
A white tank has its place—at the gym or on casual outings—but a black one is more universal. Dress it up with dark jeans or a skirt.

Short-sleeved white T-shirt.
White tees become unwearable quickly, so skip the costly designer versions and buy a bunch of good-looking inexpensive ones. Then replace as needed.

Short-sleeved black T-shirt.
The best short-sleeve length is about 1/2 to 1 inch longer than a typical cap sleeve—it shows just the right amount of arm.

Long-sleeved white T-shirt.
For a trim silhouette in white, choose a slim-fit T-shirt that skims your body but doesn't cling.

Long-sleeved black T-shirt.
A surprisingly sophisticated layering piece, this works well under a dress shirt—or even a dress.

Black turtleneck.
Consider investing in cashmere: You get more warmth with less bulk.

White button-down shirt (one cotton, one silky).
Fitted ones will get the most wear: They're easier to tuck in and look neat when left out.

Crisp white blouse.
Softer looking than a button-down, a white blouse is a timeless addition to any wardrobe.

Crewneck sweater.
Thin knits, in cotton or wool, layer easily for versatility and comfort.

Cardigan.
A neutral shade goes with everything, and a longer style that hits at the hip flatters most figures.

A black dress.
The “little black dress” is a cliche for a reason: It’s a wardrobe necessity.

Pencil skirt.
This classic piece should be tailored so it grazes the tops of the knees.

Jeans.
It's worth paying extra for jeans that fit and flatter. Your best bet? A dark, bootcut pair made from stretch denim with no more than 2 percent Lycra. (The fabric will follow your curves while keeping its shape.)

Black pants.
To get the most from this wardrobe staple, select a style made of an all-season fabric, like tropical wool or viscose.

Skinny jeans.
Once considered a trend, they are now a denim staple. Skinny jeans look best when they don’t fit too snugly at the waist.

Khaki pants.
For a casual, comfortable look, forget the pleats (a flat front is more flattering) and forgo the front crease.

Denim jacket.
A dark wash and a slim fit look the most polished.

Cropped jacket.
Made famous by Coco Chanel, this item has become a fashion mainstay. You’ll have more opportunities for pairing with one in a solid color or traditional tweed.

Black cashmere wrap.
A fabric that was once seen only in fall and winter has become a year-round regular.

Ballet flats (in a neutral or a versatile red).
Equal parts sophisticated and practical, ballet flats, especially those with rubber soles, are easy on the feet but more polished than sneakers.

Basic black pumps.
The workhorse of shoes, a good black pump can take you from day into evening without losing a step.

Metallic evening shoes.
No shoes make you more party-ready than strappy sandals or pumps in a metallic tone. The surprise? Gold and silver are remarkably versatile.
Fall Basics

Cotton waffle robe.
Perfect over pajamas or after a shower, this robe is far less bulky than its terry cloth cousin.

The tuxedo shirt.
The ultimate day-to-night top, it has a crisp quality that makes it a great multitasker.

Fleece vest.
Terrific over a turtleneck or peeking out from under a coat, a vest offers versatility in unpredictable autumn weather.

Athletic sweatshirt.
As comfortable as a flannel pajama top—but appropriate for wearing in public.

Lightweight waterproof coat.
Ideal for traveling, this practical item looks as right with a skirt as it does with a pair of jeans.

Khaki trench coat.
Structured and stylish, it’s a true classic.

Leather blazer.
A trim leather blazer brings a little sophisticated edge to any piece. Add a scarf and you’re ready to go anywhere.

Peacoat.
No longer just navy blue, peacoats come in a range of colors and a variety of lengths.

Flat boots (black or brown).
Knee-high styles work well with anything from full skirts and A-line dresses to narrow silhouettes.

Black heeled boots or booties.
High-heeled boots are a fall-to-winter essential. Ankle-grazing booties fall somewhere on the daintiness scale between pumps and boots and make a stylish alternative to both.
Winter Basics

Heavy sweater.
Look for a big, chunky knit that’s both comfortable and stylish.

Cashmere hoodie.
More luxurious than the cotton variety, this layering piece is a sportier version of the cardigan.

Dark-wash jeans.
A wardrobe standby in the cold winter months that’s available in a variety of cuts. Keep in mind that boot-cut and wide-leg styles work well over boots.

Pantsuit.
Wear the jacket and pants together to show you mean business—or treat them like separates to maximize their use.

Gray flannel pants.
These stylish standards look great with brown, navy, and black—and also with brights.

Wool trousers.
Look for a lined pair in fine gabardine wool, made with a twill weave, which won’t feel too heavy.

Down vest.
Works best in a neutral color like brown, black, or navy, so you can wear it with anything.

Black cashmere wrap coat.
Whether calf or fingertip length, this elegant item will work for day or evening.

Winter coat.
Fur-trimmed, down, or wool, a winter coat should offer enough room to accommodate a sweater or jacket.
Spring Basics

Cotton polo.
More tailored than a T-shirt, it offers cool comfort on even the stickiest days.

Cotton blouse.
An airy and attractive springtime fundamental.

Printed tops.
A few boldly patterned pieces add life and color to spring basics.

Lightweight cashmere sweater.
Single-ply cashmere offers comfort in over-air-conditioned offices and movie theaters.

Cotton button-up cardigan.
Combines the softness of a sweatshirt with the elegance of a cashmere sweater.

Lightweight waterproof raincoat.
Easy to carry as a guard against spring’s fickle skies, it blocks wind and rain without weighing you down.

One-button blazer.
A cotton or lightweight-wool jacket is a pulled-together layer that can be removed when the temperature rises.

Inverted pleat skirt.
As good looking with a tailored button-down shirt as it is with a tank top, it can be paired with a jacket for a more professional look.

Capri pants.
These ankle-baring bottoms look great with ballet flats or strappy sandals.

Chinos.
Comfortable cotton pants that are durable enough for a day in the park but still look proper in the office.
Summer Basics

Bathing suit.
A well-fitting one- or two-piece in a go-anywhere color like black, white, or navy never goes out of style.

Convertible strapless bra.
This adjustable undergarment looks smooth and natural under a strapless dress, tank top, or halter.

Cotton pajamas.
A pretty patterned pair works as both loungewear and sleepwear.

Built-in bra tank.
Offering coverage and support (and an end to visible bra straps), this tank can be worn to workouts or cookouts—and even to the office, under a jacket or sweater.

Ribbed cotton tank.
Originally made for men, these shirts are now available in female-friendly shapes. Pick one that fits your figure—it works well alone or under a suit jacket.

Cotton blouse.
Choose a lightweight top from a range of colors and a variety of prints.

Cotton printed dress.
Stay comfortable even in heavy-duty humidity.

Strapless dress.
A white one will show off a great tan, but black, navy, and camel also work beautifully.

Khaki shorts.
The summer-wardrobe equivalent of air-conditioning, khaki shorts keep you cool, comfortable, and looking crisp.

Cotton drawstring pants.
A good-quality pair will take you straight from yoga class to lunch with a friend.

White jeans.
Available in a wide range of styles, white jeans look chic with almost any warm-weather top.

Flat leather sandals.
A good pair of flat sandals will pair up with virtually anything from shorts to jeans to flowing skirts to bathing suits—and can even sub in for slippers, for minimal vacation packing.
20th century saw some serious improvement in terms of both men’s and women’s apparel. Spearheading this reform were a class of fashion icons whom we refer to as fashion designer artists. Most of the famous iconic fashion designers of the last century are known till at the present time for their ability to exhibit the beauty of a woman’s body by way of stylish, modernist, creative and elegant clothing. Below you will find a 10 list of all such iconic fashion designers, who have made women look stunning,beautiful, sensuous and gorgeous through their interesting and unique fashion designs.
Check out 10 Most Famous Fashion Designers Of All Time. This list is just for 10 of them and it is in random order. So don’t get mad because I didn’t include other famous designers like Karl Lagerfeld, Marc Jacobs, Dolce & Gabbana, Jacques Cartier, Louis Vuitton and many more…

10 – Yves Saint Laurent
Yves Saint Laurent
Yves Saint Laurent
Yves Saint Laurent became popular in fashion circles due to his creativity in redesigning the clothes considered to be masculine into beautiful, feminine wardrobe for women. Perhaps, one of the most famous fashion designers in France, Yves was the first one to introduce power dressing for women in the form of “power suits” in the year 1966. He is also credited with designing the men’s smoking jacket. The most important fashion legacy which he has left behind is the “ready-to-wear” fashion clothing.

09 – Pierre Cardin
Fashion Designers Pierre Cardin
Pierre Cardin
The Italian-born Frenchman is lauded for his 20th century pieces that looked as though they were from the 25th century. As Cardin rose to fame in the age of the space race, his creations took on an air of futurism. His so-called bubble dresses had all the fixings of science fiction, combining earthly elegance with out-of-this-world colors and avant garde design. They may be wacky, sure, but Cardin’s clothes showed a freedom of expression that highlighted larger ideals, in particular the emancipation of women. The visionary designer fell out of critical favor when he attached his name to less fashionable items, from cars to umbrellas, but his futuristic, space-centric legacy will live to infinity and beyond.

08 – Tom Ford
Tom Ford
Tom Ford
Tom Ford, counted among the most famous designers today, whose portfolio includes serving as a creative director for both Yves Saint Laurent and Gucci, wanted to be actor when he was growing up. He was born in Texas and even took training to be an actor. But fate had other “designs” for him. Tom ford popularity as a designer reached peaks when in the year 2000, he was declared the winner of the Best International Designer Award.

07 – Christian Dior
Christian Dior
Christian Dior
Born in January of 1905, this French designer was best known for his distinctive “New Look” silhouette. First shown in 1947; his suits and dresses revolutionized the way women dressed after the Second World War. Today, talented designer John Galliano carries on the legendary designer’s legacy in Paris, where he creates dramatic couture ball gowns, chic prêt-a-porter, and luxurious accessories for Dior. Galliano’s talent and his over-the-top runway shows have ensured that the brand remains strong and viable in today’s world…

06 – Ralph Lauren
Ralph Lauren
Ralph Lauren
Ralph Lauren is worth $7.5 billion, and he got it all because of his fashion sense. In 1970, the first Polo logo was seen in Lauren’s line of women’s suits that was designed in the classic men’s style. Two years later, the famous short sleeve shirt with the Polo emblem appeared, and it soon became a classic. These shirts have been collected by men all over the world ever since. Lauren, on the other hand, has been collecting rare and classic cars. The collection is so unique that it has been featured in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.

05 – Donatella Versace
Donatella Versace
Donatella Versace
She is the sister of Gianni Versace, and she has proven to be no lesser sibling. After the murder of Gianni in 1997, Donatella took over and has taken the Versace name to new heights. She made sure that Versace shops would cater to the different fashion centers around the world, particularly Milan and New York. Top celebrities like Jennifer Lopez and Madonna have endorsed the company’s collection of clothes, accessories, fragrances and home furnishings.
04 – Calvin Klein
Calvin Klein
Calvin Klein
Born in 1942 in New York, Klein also capitalized on his own charisma and lean good looks. Throughout the decades, rumors about his own sexual orientation seemed to fuel the ongoing mystique and appeal of this designer. His biggest business rival, Ralph Lauren, was believed to envy Klein’s ability to charm so effortlessly, and to “work a room”.

03 – Giorgio Armani
Giorgio Armani
Giorgio Armani
Giorgio Armani, an outstanding Italian fashion designer, particularly noted for his menswear for his clean, tailored lines. He formed his company, Armani, in 1975, and by 2001 was acclaimed as the most successful designer to come out of Italy, with an annual turnover of $1.6 billion and a personal fortune of $7 billion as of 2012. Armani is also the first ever designer to ban models who has a Body Mass Index under 18. He is truly a 
Donna Karan
Donna Karan
Donna Karan came from a background that was related to fashion in certain ways. This fashion designer worked as a head of a design team for a few number of years and launched some designs that included the very well-known ‘Seven Easy Pieces’. She is the sole creator of the DKNY label (Donna Karen New York). Since then, this label has seen many new additions in the fashion segment.
Coco Chanel
Born Gabrielle“Coco” Bonheur Chanel, she is a excellent French fashion designer, founder of the well known Chanel brand, whose modernist thought, practical design, and pursuit of expensive simplicity made her an important and influential figure in 20th-century fashion. She was the only fashion designer to be named on Time 100: The Most Important People of the Century.



