There are times when the food in my refrigerator and pantry does not seem very appetizing. Many nights I find myself opening that cold, stainless steel door only to see an oval-shaped dish stuck way in the back covered with tin foil staring at me in wonder…and what about that concoction that I threw together the other night after one too many black and tans!?The good news is that after God created humans, human creativity created the means to be able to create fast food. And we saw that it was good and we blessed it so.So here we have the most popular fast food establishments. This list is based upon my own experiences and preferences from worst to best.16. Taco BellTaco Bell got its start by a man named Glen Bell in San Bernardino, California. He began by opening his own hotdog/hamburger stand which he worked himself until he sold it in 1952. Glen had been an avid Mexican food lover and loved the tacos at the take-out places that he frequented in the Mexican neighborhoods. However, he was concerned about the amount of preparation time that it took for these tacos to be made.Eventually he opened up a taco place oddly named Der Weinerschnitzel (German for breaded veil) with his wife and a friend. Eventually he focused on his taco making skills and when one thing led to another he had 100 restaurants. Officially, Taco Bell went public in 1962 and the rest is history.The reason for my inclusion of Taco Bell is simply this: most people that I know LOVE Taco Bell, but I personally refuse to eat it. Why?Taco Bell stays opened well after the 4 a.m. bars and pubs close in my area.
Taco Bell is so affordable that you could eat a days worth of food with only $3.00 USD. That seems a little odd to me.
3) Go to the grocery. Look in the cold cut meat section. Ask for souse or head-cheese. Take it home and grind it up really good and put it in a hard shell taco. That is basically Taco Bell meat.
They literally use a damn caulk gun to spurt excessive amounts of sour cream into the middle of their tacos!What I typically order from this establishment:Apple Empanada15. Kentucky Fried ChickenFounded in Corbin, Kentucky by Colonel Harlan Sanders in the front room of a gas station that he owned and operated, Colonel Sanders officially sold his first franchise of Kentucky Fried Chicken to a man in Salt Lake City, Utah in 1952. Before that he had created his infamous Original Recipe of 11 herbs and spices in 1940 and sold it in the dining area of his gas station which he affectionately called Sander’s Court & Café.After a series of bad debts which left him virtually penniless in 1955 he set out on the road once again to try and sell his chicken recipe to restaurants. It apparently worked very well as in 1969 KFC had over 600 franchises in the U.S. and Canada as well as one overseas in England. This was also the year that KFC was officially listed as a tradeable commodity on the New York Stock Exchange.What I typically order from this establishment:10 piece bucket of Original Recipe Chicken14. McDonald’sAh, the famous Golden Arches. The world famous McDonald’s fast food restaurant got its start around the same time as Taco Bell in the same location: San Bernardino, California. The restaurant was owned by a couple of brothers, Dick and Mac McDonald. It wasn’t a household name until a man named Raymond Croc heard about them operating 8 of the same type of milk shake machine that he was himself trying to make a living selling, The Multimixer. He saddled up and went out west to talk business. The year was 1954.After Ray convinced the McDonald brothers to open up several more restaurants in order to sell some of his milk shake machines to each establishment he decided to run one of his own. Ray undertook the sole task of running his own McDonald’s restaurant in Des Plaines, Illinois in 1955. In 1963 the famous face of Ronald McDonald made his first appearance on a television commercial. After the success of the original McDonald’s franchise in Illinois (which is now a museum of McDonald’s memorabilia) there was no doubt that the restaurant would become famous very quickly.What I typically order from this establishment:2 sausage, egg and cheese McGriddles and a large orange juice for breakfast
The Double Quarter Pounder with cheese value meal with a Coke for lunch/dinner13. Checker’sKnown as Rally’s in some areas of the United States, Checker’s is fairly new to the fast food scene. Founded in Mobile, Alabama in 1986 Checker’s later merged with Rally’s in Louisville, Kentucky to become a bigger corporation. Checker’s is headquartered in Tampa, Florida and has been public since 1991 when it had a total of 85 restaurants in its chain. Most people can recognize these restaurants for their vibrant retro look as well as their unique double drive thru windows and their 2 walk-up windows.What I typically order from this establishment:2 Big Buford sandwiches, 1 large Rally fry and a large chocolate or banana milkshake12. Hardee’sFounded by a Greenville, North Carolina man by the name of Wilbur Hardee in 1960, Hardee’s has been a staple of the American Midwest and Southeast ever since. The originality of Hardee’s lies in its famous cinnamon raisin biscuits baked fresh under the roof of their equally famous hexagonal buildings. This hexagonal style of building was also reflected in their hexagonal hamburger patties in the pioneering days of the franchise.In the year 1997, Hardee’s was purchased by a corporation named CKE restaurants that also owned and operated a chain of fast food restaurants called Carl’s Jr. This merger made discerning Hardee’s from Carl’s Jr. restaurants difficult since the famous Carl’s Jr. smiling star logo was incorporated into the Hardee’s logo. Most Hardee’s now serve food more reminiscent of the typical Carl’s Jr. menu.What I typically order from this establishment:½ lb. Six Dollar Burger, large order of Crispy Curls and a large chocolate malt11. White CastleA young and budding entrepreneur took a huge shot at creating America’s first and oldest fast food restaurant way back in 1921 in Wichita, Kansas. His name was Walter Anderson and together with a fellow investor named Billy Ingram made White Castle a famous American name by serving Americans the infamous “Slyder” mini burger for a mere 5 cents a piece.The challenge of opening up the restaurants was due to the American public’s fear of the unsafe and unsanitary practices by the meat packing industry. This fear was brought about due to Upton Sinclair’s famous novel The Jungle. Anderson and Ingram combated this fear by creating very small establishments painted a white color on the outside to bring to the mind a sense of cleanliness. They also had their workers wear nice white butcher gowns and work in an all stainless steel kitchen to give the place a sanitary feel. This plan worked tremendously as White Castle is still going strong almost 90 years later.White Castle is famous for the aforementioned Slyders that are uniquely grilled with sliced onions and the bun on the top of the small square burger patty. This gives the burger a steam effect through 5 strategically placed holes in the thin patty which in turn not only steams the burger bun, but also makes flipping the patty over to cook on the other side a thing of the past.What I typically order from this establishment:10 sack of Slyders with cheese (if you have eaten White Castle before you should know why they call them Slyders)10. Arby’sIn 1964 in the small town of Boardman, Ohio two brothers, Leroy and Forrest Raffel, decided to open a restaurant that served roast beef sandwiches with bags of potato chips and giant sized iced teas to drink rather than the typical hamburger and soda pop everyone else was serving up. Upon trying to think of a name for their restaurant they decided on Arby’s which stands for R.B. or Raffel Brothers and also roast beef. Clever huh?It only took one year for them to sell their first franchise. Since then Arby’s franchises took off like wild fire. At one point Arby’s was owned by The Royal Crown Cola Company (RC Cola), which received a lot of sales through Arby’s restaurants by having their cola served over the ever popular Coca-Cola and Pepsi. The Arby’s franchises are not only famous for their various roast beef sandwiches, but also their secret Arby’s sauce and their spicy Horsey Sauce as well as their delicious Curly Fries. Recent contract negotiations over the past few years have made Pepsi the main carbonated beverage currently being served in all Arby’s locations.What I typically order from this establishment:Mix and match 5 for $5.95. I get 3 Arby melts, 1 order of mozzarella sticks and 1 order of potato wedges with a large Pepsi on the side.9. A&W RestaurantIn 1919 a man named Roy Allen decided to take a shot at making a nice cool beverage during a hot summer day in Lodi, California using a recipe that he purchased from a pharmacist in Arizona. What he created would later be another division whose sole purpose would be to manufacture and distribute the famous drink. Currently A&W franchises have expanded the world over.What I typically order from this establishment:The A&W Papa Burger, 1 large order of onion rings and, of course, a huge frosted mug of A&W Root Beer and an A&W Root Beer Float for dessert

8. Long John Silver’sAnother Yum! Brands acquisition, Long John Silver’s was inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson’s famous book Treasure Island. The company wanted great seafood at a great price given in a timely manner. So in 1969 the first Long John Silver’s restaurant was founded in Lexington, KY.The buildings were themed towards a pirate ship. There were ropes winding throughout the restaurants. The waiting areas were modeled to look like the wooden interior of the ships and there was even a bell hung by the exit door for customers to ring if they were satisfied with their visit to the restaurant. I admit that I have ringed the bell several times myself.Some of us might remember the restaurant Jerry’s. That company also owned and operated the chains of Long John Silver’s restaurants throughout the nation until the corporation’s bankruptcy in 1998. This is when the corporation who would later become Yum! Brands bought them out.What I typically order from this establishment:2 fish and 2 chicken planks combo basket with the occasional side order of clam strips and always a large iced tea with a lemon wedge7. Dairy QueenOften referred to as DQ, this chain of fast food restaurants has been famous for their ice cream since a father and son team created a soft serve ice cream blend in Illinois and had a friend sell it in his ice cream shop. The soft serve took off and became an overnight sensation. The owner of the ice cream shop, Sherwood “Sherb” Noble, opened the first official Dairy Queen in Joliet, Illinois in 1940.From there it was every franchiser’s dream. Dairy Queens began sprouting up all over the Midwestern United States and by 1950 there were over 1400 establishments. Eventually the shops starting serving not only frozen treats, but also hamburgers, hotdogs and chicken sandwiches. However, the main focus of Dairy Queen has been their ever famous Blizzard frozen treat since 1985. The Blizzards are made from the same recipe of soft serve ice cream that a young boy and his father invented over 60 years ago.What I typically order from this establishment:¼ lb. FlameThrower Grillburger combo meal with Coke to drink and either a butterscotch sundae or a small cotton candy Blizzard (trust me…they’re excellent).6. Sonic Drive-InVery famous for keeping the car hop era of the 1950’s alive to this day, Sonic truly is, as they say, America’s Drive-In. It all started when Troy Smith opened up a root beer stand in Stillwater, Oklahoma in 1953. The idea behind this stand was for customers to remain humbly in their vehicles and order using a speaker situated on a pole in designated parking spots. Once ready the food would be taken to the car by one of the car hop employees.Eventually, a very impressed customer named Charles Pappe negotiated with Troy Smith and opened up the very first Sonic Drive-In Restaurant in Woodard, Oklahoma. They decided on the name Sonic in part because the original name Top Hat was already taken and also the word sonic reflected the speed at which a customer’s order was taken and delivered.Not only does Sonic Drive-In Restaurants stand out because they still utilize the speaker and car hop method of order taking and delivery, but their menu has countless combinations of treats. As a customer you can take any flavor of syrup or juice that they have on their menu and combine it with one of their Slushes, carbonated beverages, or Fresh Fruit Limeaids. This leads to a truly unique drink of your very own.What I typically order from this establishment:Bacon Cheeseburger Toaster Sandwich combo with an order of onion rings instead of fries and my very own concoction of the regular strawberry Limeaid with strawberry juice added5. Burger KingOne of my favorite fast food places to eat, Burger King was officially established in 1954 in Miami, Florida by two Hotel Administration graduates from a local college. Sensing that McDonald’s would be a success David Edgerton and James McLamore established a fast food hamburger restaurant called Insta Burger King.A few years later James McLamore would introduce Burger King’s signature sandwich, The Whopper now dubbed as America’s favorite sandwich. The menu also began to expand from simple burgers and fries to include fish and chicken sandwiches. With much success they forged ahead, but were frequently met with pitfalls, trials and tribulations in the coming years.Burger King has been owned and sold by more companies than I care to list. The franchise has also caused controversy between rivals like Wendy’s and McDonald’s by claiming that their burgers taste better. The Burger King of Australia, called Hungry Jack, had trouble with Burger King over name problems since there was a name of a Pillsbury product in America called Hungry Jack and Pillsbury just happened to own Burger King at the time of the controversy.Through all of the messes that the corporation has run into over the past 50+ years, Burger King still remains a solid foundation and a house hold name with its famous Whopper sandwich.What I typically order from this establishment:#3 Value Meal: Triple Whopper with cheese, upgraded to large size with a Coke and onion rings instead of french fries4. Big Boy The Big Boy double decker sandwich was the first double decker to be introduced in America. It was all thanks to a man named Bob Wian from Glendale, California and his hamburger diner in 1936. The idea came when he was challenged by a group of customers to create something other than a plain old hamburger. The challenge was accepted and thus began the birth of the famous burger with the famous secret sauce.The name Big Boy came about when Wian met a little pudgy kid who came into the restaurant to grab one of those famous double decker burgers that everyone was talking about. He allegedly called the little kid “Big Boy” and the name has stuck ever since. Next, a customer would one day end up drawing on a napkin the iconic image of the fat little boy in red and white checkered overalls running with a Big Boy burger in his hand. Now Wian had a corporate icon to make his restaurants more recognizable.Not only is Big Boy recognizable because of the statue of Big Boy in front of each restaurant, but they also retain their retro diner feel. The interior is like being whisked back to the 50’s when diners were at their prime. The fact that they also have a uniquely famous burger also helps too.What I typically order from this establishment:2 Swiss Miss sandwiches, an order of onion rings, a Coke with vanilla syrup and chocolate malt3. SubwayJared may be an idiotic looking guy, but he promotes one of the best fast food chains in American history so far as I am concerned. Subway was founded by relatives Fred De Luca and Peter Buck in Bridgeport, Connecticut. The 20 year old Fred borrowed some money from Uncle Buck and opened Pete’s Submarines. The name was changed later to Pete’s Subway since radio announcements about the sandwich shop sounded like Pizza Marines. Subsequently, it was shortened to simply Subway.The success was instantaneous. Not only was Subway able to create custom submarine sandwiches for each customer, but they also used healthy, fresh ingredients. This would be the signature for Subway as the franchises expanded to current franchises basically across the entire planet, even inside the U.S. Pentagon. Franchisees also have the option of what to include in their menu selection making each Subway unique to the area.What I typically order from this establishment:Footlong meatball sub on wheat bread with pepper jack cheese, jalapeno peppers and banana peppers (they took the damn white onion off the menu recently those morons!)2. Qdoba Mexican GrillThis extremely delicious and addicting establishment was founded in 1995 by the glorious minds of Anthony Miller and Robert Hauser of Denver, Colorado and is surprisingly owned by Jack in the Box. The chain focuses on fresh ingredients made to the specifications of the customer. Hence your regular chicken or steak burrito can have any choice of several salsas, black or pinto beans, rice, shredded cheese, queso and fresh guacamole made fresh each day.Want to know just how addicting this place is? Go to one. You don’t even have to eat there. Just walk in and look at how long the line is. See it? It is like that ALL the time! ALL the time! But man oh man is it worth it!What I typically order from this establishment:Chicken Queso Burrito with black beans and rice with shredded cheese, Roasted Chile Corn Salsa and the medium Salsa Verde. I top that off with a large cup full of the best tea on Earth, Nestea Raspberry.1. Chick-Fil-AThis queen mother of all fast food gluttony was originally founded under the name Dwarf House in a small suburb of Atlanta, Georgia by S. Truett Cathy. Most often found in shopping malls Chick-Fil-A franchises have recently been growing out of the malls and into their own restaurants.Chick-Fil-A focuses on chicken based dishes rather than hamburgers so often found in fast food establishments. They are set aside from other chicken places like KFC because they use peanut oil to cook in and their meat is all 100% whole white breast meat chicken, none of that mechanically separated compressed stuff found in most other fast food chicken dishes. Everything from their chicken nuggets to their classic chicken sandwich is all white meat.Another signature dish is their unique waffle fries. This also sets them apart from other places that serve the traditional frenched potato strands. Top that off with the savory Polynesian sauce and you have the best place to grab a bite to eat in the entire world. S. Truett Cathy should be immortalized and given her own star constellation and have a huge statue built in their likeness that would dwarf (no pun intended) The Colossus of Rhodes. I may start that campaign right now in fact!What I typically order from this establishment:2 Classic Chicken sandwiches with 2 Polynesian sauce cups, a large order of Waffle Fries and a large Coke.
he massive success of the Amma budget canteens in various localities in Chennai has paved way for more such canteens across the state. It arrived in the junction region of Trichy last week, to fantastic response.

The basic premise of the budget canteen is to get extremely affordable but high quality of food that isn't really characteristic of its price. But the catch is, it has been well received by people of all class. And the Rs. 1 idlies, and Rs.5 sambar rice already are selling like hot cakes. Open from 7 to 10 am for breakfast and 12 to 3 pm for lunch, it is fast becoming a must-visit place for Trichyites.

"I was really waiting for the canteens as I had heard a lot of good things about the Chennai ones. So the moment, the Rockins Road branch was opened, we students rushed off to taste it. And I must say, I was mighty impressed," says Dinesh, a student of a Cantonnment-based college.

More appreciation has been pouring in for the cleanliness maintained in the spots as well. "I initially feared that like, most government operated bodies, the budget canteens would shut down due to mismanagement, but so far I am impressed by the neatness and how well the crowd is managed," says Sumathi, from Srirangam. The budget canteens will open in 11 locations across the city — including Jan Bazaar, Kuppankulam, Rockins Road, Puthur Overhead Water Tank, Anna Nagar Overhead Water Tank, Jaganathapuram, Viragupettai, Melkalkandaar Kottai, and Salai Road, Woraiyur — and all of these will be managed by the Trichy City Corporation.

Kale chips are trending? Anyone who’s in the know knew they went out as soon as I decreed it. And moonshine will be the darling of the cocktail world? I live in East Tennessee and I can assure you that moonshine has always been darling. It’s kind of adorable that all these mixologists are discovering it now. Bless their little hearts.
It’s the beginning of February which has given me plenty of time to peruse all the various lists of food related products that will be trending in or out for 2013. Frankly? I’m not impressed. Who do these food editors and writers think they’re fooling? It’s obvious there is a need for real experts to help us with predicting trends. I have graciously offered my services since I am an expert, based on this one article I wrote.
1) Vegetables are going to be so hot this year. Why? Because every damn trend list has had this on it every single year for the last ten years. This is my safety net prediction, because we’re about to get freaky from here on.
2) After looking at these other lists, I see that I need to pick some other country’s cuisine that is out, while another is going to be very trendy.  After a lot of research, I’m completely convinced that Icelandic cuisine is going to be so hot this year. Get ready for Hákarl fritters! Canadian food is so last year, because we all know Canada is full of assholes who will stop at nothing to spread socialism all over this great country, as if it were maple syrup.
Every year, Americans find a new third world country whose cuisine we can appropriate and make even better. Congratulations Burma (AKA Myanmar)! You win this year. Somalia? It was close, but no cigar. Maybe next year? I was really shocked that Bon Appetit picked Burma as well! Very impressive. Burma? Expect your native foods to be made into all kinds of delicious fusion dishes. You’ll also get to see Americans using Urban Outfitters to make a mockery of your country through the use of adorable t shirts like ‘What happens in Burma stays locked in solitary confinement!’ or ‘Burma until you just can’t Myanmar!’ or ‘Burma-Shave/now just / Burma-Slave’. Just remember when you see these witty puns on shirts at Target, all of us in the know will have moved on to the next third world country to exploit.
3) I keep hearing pie is over, but anyone who tells me pie isn’t cool is dead to me. Pies will be big in 2013 and HUGE in 2014. I’m always ahead of these trends, and I have big plans to start my new pie bakery called “Shut Your Piehole”. I’m putting it in the space where Cinnabons is now at our local mall. By force, if necessary. Expect a franchise in your local suburban mall soon!
What desserts are so tired and done? German chocolate cake. I asked a lot of experts about this (my husband), and they all agreed. So boring and so 2012. Rice pudding with raisins in it is also over. That dessert has actually been over, since I convinced the entire second grade class at St Bernard’s Elementary that the raisins in it were really engorged blood-filled ticks.
4) Hot new diet trends? I know they won last year, but Paleo or Primal diets will continue to take the year by storm until about June. Around that time, there will be a massive uprising by those of us who don’t want to hear about these damn diets 24 hours a day from people doing them, and they’ll all end up smothered in bread and mashed potatoes, never to be heard from again.

5) Artisanal Foods are over this coming year. So sorry to all you small producers out there. I know you all work really hard but come on! Can you really trust these “small producers”? They may put their heart and soul into their products, but is that really necessary? I’ve eaten cheese infested with maggots, but I refuse to eat cheese with someone’s heart in it. I mean for godsakes, I’m not Andrew Zimmern! I have standards. And Marcus drank a beer brewed with soul, and it wasn’t any better than Yuengling.

6) Food on sticks will still be hot, but this trend will be taking us to places we’ve never gone to before. This site is kind of on its game with the idea of  push-pops coming back, but they don’t go far enough. I see this trend blowing up in the foodie world. In fact, a good friend of mine is starting a food truck where all the foods will be served out of push pops. I got a sample of his BBQ pork push-pop the other day, and it is amazing. I can’t wait until his noodle aspic push-pops are ready.

7) I’m a bit abashed, because I just decreed something out and used it in the above list. But I am officially decreeing that the term ‘foodie’ is so 2006. We, the people who live only for the greatest deity of all, Food, have transcended that term, and we’re choosing a new identity for ourselves. It may take a while to get around to all of you, but I am ordaining many of you as food cardinals and priests. When you die, I might beatify you and make you a saint. Obviously, I am your Pope and therefore omniscient.

8)Speaking of food trucks? So 2012. A lot of food truck owners are switching over to VW Bugs. First – they’re so adorable.  Second – they have a much more homey feeling. Third – they have much better fuel efficiency. Fourth - the small space really makes workers very efficient. What has really been amazing is that workers for these Food Bugs are producing a lot of jobs for out of work clowns. Helping the economy with tasty food. What more could you ask for?

9) Obviously, quinoa is out. The hottest grain on the runway - triticale. Anything that tribbles like has to be glorious.
10) Cookie butter is the new Nutella. Expect to find it in everything, including savory dishes. I just wanted to make sure you’re all warned. I’m working on a blog post where I use it in a fondue with brie and lots of garlic. It will be amazing.
11) Salted caramels. Bacon caramels. Chai latte caramels. Black Forest marshmallows. Root Beer Marshmallows. Rhubarb & ginger marshmallows. BORING! Homemade caramels and marshmallows are so out this year. This year will be the year of homemade Skittles. Please get to work on this at once.
12)Hottest new meat this year? This isn’t for the timid, but it’s taking the real food world by storm. I’m not sure if you’re familiar with Buttermilk the goat. I’ve provided a video below to familiarize yourself in case you don’t know of her. She has now been successfully cloned.
A super-secret VIP party was held where only the loftiest of the food world’s hoi-polloi could attend. Andrew Zimmern, Anthony Bourdain, the elusive Ruth Bourdain, Guy Fieri, Marilyn Hagerty and Sandra Lee were among the lucky people in attendance. As the mystery course was served, gasps of awe could be heard over the loud gulps of Sandra finishing her fifth cocktail. Forget the clones – these lucky individuals actually got to eat the real Buttermilk.
Anthony and Andrew tried to hide their awe by bragging about the baby monkey foie gras they ate in Borneo. Marilyn raved about the ample portions and relaxed ambiance and swore she’d be back if they came up with a good chicken Parmigiana. Sandra was heard to slur “Deelushus, deelushus” several times before she was carried back to the governor’s mansion. We could not get a quote from Guy Fieri due to a tragic candlelight/hair product incident. Get well soon, Guy!

Ruth quickly shuffled away, a shawl wrapped so it covered her face and she did not speak. But the next day she tweeted: “Teeth nibble at crispy bits of sacrificial rite. Juice spurts down my throat. My mouth f@#*$ this offering. Buttermilk gave up the milk for free”

13)It wouldn’t be a real trend list if I didn’t throw trendy tips over to food bloggers! Food blogging props that will take the world by storm? Michael was ahead of the trend on this one. Expect lots more toilet paper to be accessorizing your favorite food blogger dishes this year. Miniature drag queens always make a baked good look more appetizing. And expect to see more duct tape. It can be used in to many amazing ways to showcase the food in your blog post. Except that horrible mustache duct tape. That’s so wrong.

 Wouldn’t he look fabulous on a scone?

14)I had been hearing a lot about different artisanal dirts that can be lightly sprinkled over your trendy vegetables. But I am so glad that I talked to Jennifer from Last Night’s Dinner, and she let me know the real rage right now is ground up fire ants. There’s no way to add greater zest to your food.

15)Some assholes pompously decreed that Southern food is so passe. I’ve heard of several chefs dying in tragic biscuit accidents, but I have alibis for each and every one of these incidents. Besides we all know it’s bullshit. We all know that Northern food is so over this year. And Missouri? We’re sick of you riding on our coattails. You can’t sit with us anymore. Head over to the Northern lunchroom table.



Now that you’re all informed, I really want to see you food bloggers put these great ideas into action. And try to stay ahead of the trends – I’ve been hearing a lot about how dingo meat is starting to be utilized in baby food because of its nutritional value. Get creative bloggers! Dingo sliders anyone?

PS – I almost forgot to add this, but Michael Procopio? We all agree he had a great run in 2012, but he’s so not trendy enough for 2013.

I would like to thank Sean, Anita, Jennifer, Caitlin, Broderick & Kristi for helping me to find my funny again. They’re all marvelous. Go read their blogs and/or follow them on twitter.



Let me say this at the outset, it wouldn't be quite fair to say that this list represents global food trends. Simply because the availability of ingredients is limited to geography and what we consume is governed by history. But it's a representative list in the sense that never before have ingredients traveled around the world at such a swift speed whether in real terms or virtually.

So while the Americans are chewing on Chia seeds, we in India could be discovering the age old goodness of ragi. I don't know about you, but at least I am.


Gluten Free

Walk into a supermarket and you are likely to see an aisle dedicated to Gluten free. What is gluten free? It essentially means without wheat. Try telling a north Indian that he should give up his rotis, and he will think you're mad. But over the last few years, gluten allergy has become quite common. Many people claim their 'gluten sensitivity' makes them feel bloated and fatigued when they eat things made with wheat, barley and rye. It's a whopping 7 billion dollar industry today.

Are you gluten intolerant? Learn how to make a gluten free chocolate cake.
Other gluten free recipes.


Quinoa

A south American grain that's now looked upon as a super food by nutritionists. It's very high in protein, has got hardly any calories, and is low in cholesterol. So far, so good. The latest stories about Quinoa that is doing the rounds is, that there is a global shortage. Thanks to the rising demand. So much so that it has become scarce in South America, where it's the staple for the poor.

I have cooked with it enough to become a die-hard fan. I bung in vegetables, to make a salad, sometimes I make a risotto, or sprinkle feta cheese on top along with toasted sesame. Each time, it welcomes all the flavors with open arms.


Cold Pressed Extra Virgin Coconut Oil

Consume this like a tonic, the health experts say. It's great for your hair and skin, i was told by one of India's most respected doctors. Then I came across people who had health issues reversed and they all seem to be  consuming  this oil as it makes your immune system strong,  it is full of anti-oxidants... A word of advice - try and buy it organic.

Know more: Why coconut oil is good for you?


Eating Raw

Eating raw uncooked food guarantees wellness as well as weight loss. The claim: raw food is packed with natural enzymes and nutrients that help the body reach optimal health - and you'll shed pounds. Of course, this diet is as old as time itself but it has evolved with time.

They are slowly but surely making their way into crackers and breads. I regularly use them as a filling in my tart shells.

Read: Gourmet food goes raw


Farmers Markets

By definition, it is when Organic produce is sold by producers directly to the consumer. Very simply this cuts past all the middlemen. The farmers or producers interact with the customer directly. Be it vegetables, grains, cheese, honey, sauces, it's all produced pesticide free and available at an affordable price to the consumer.

It's worked the world over, but the urban cities of India are slowly getting there.
Also read: Where to buy organic?


Detoxification

Weekend packages at spas, healthy diets, Ayurveda centers, detoxification takes on new hues and rules. The basic tenet is to give your system a break. You can go raw, you can do Ayurvedic practices, you can even opt for massages that help you detox. An age old technique that has been and still is going strong.

Whip up a health juice and a bowlful of colorful jowar medley.
Watch: Discover the importance of detox with Anurag Sharma of the Baidyanath group
Goji Berries
The new kids to have jumped onto the super food bandwagon are the goji berries. In India, you get them dried and packaged. They can be sprinkled onto your cereals, on yoghurt or in a dessert. They are less sweet than cranberries, are slightly chewy and have a radiant pink tone. Did you know that goji berries have been used by herbalists for over 6,000 years in China?
Whole Grain

It's creeped into your flour, biscuits, oats and even in packaged foods. It's everywhere. Whole grain means that all parts of the grain kernel -- the bran, germ and endosperm are used.
Yoghurt
One of the words that is doing the rounds these days is probiotics and that's made yoghurt culturally 'in'. It has all the good bacteria. Supermarkets are filled with flavored versions, but nothing comes close to the home-made version.
Ragi
Ragi, also known as finger millet. A health food that is a staple for children in South Indian homes, is making a comeback on the grindstone. It's a very rich source of calcium, is great for the bones and is low in cholesterol. It's now found its way into biscuits, flour, snacks..you name it.
Recipes with the goodness of ragi.
People are fickle when it comes to their food. Tough to say whether quinoa will get pride of place in restaurant menus or if cold pressed coconut oil will remain a hot trend.
For that, watch out this space.
yummyyyyyy
Cafe Latte
More Recipes
Courses
Appetizers
Beverages
Breakfasts
Desserts
Lunch
Main Dishes
Side Dishes
Occasion
Dinner Party Recipes
Mother's Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Cuisines
Beans
Beef
Chicken
Fish
Fruit
Pasta
Pork
Rice
Vegetables
Special Diets
Diabetic-Friendly
Gluten-Free
Low Fat
Vegetarian
Weight Watchers
Need to dig deeper?
Bourbon Chicken 
2,672 Reviews 
| By LinMarie
I searched and finally found this recipe on the internet. It is a copycat of the Bourbon Chicken sold in Chinese carry-outs in my hometown. This recipe...

Recipe #45809
To Die for Crock Pot Roast 
1,531 Reviews 
| By yooper
Amazing flavor, and so simple! No salt needed here. In fact, you may wish to use half the ranch dressing mix to cut back on the saltiness. Found this...

Recipe #27208
Crock Pot Chicken W/ Black Beans and Cream Cheese...yum! 
1,507 Reviews 
| By Jen Santiago
I love this Crock-Pot chicken recipe for two reasons: one, my family loves it and two, it is so easy to make! I got this recipe from my sister. She has...
Recipe #89204
Creamy Cajun Chicken Pasta 
1,302 Reviews 
| By Lorac
N'awlin's style of chicken with an updated Alfredo sauce.
Recipe #39087
"Whatever Floats Your Boat" Brownies! 
1,163 Reviews 
| By Karen=^..^=
These are absolutely the chewiest, moistest, fudgiest brownies ever! I have tried adding so many different things to the batter, and they ALWAYS comes...
Recipe #32204
Best Ever Banana Cake With Cream Cheese Frosting 
1,084 Reviews 
| By Rhonda *J*
This is one of (if not) the BEST banana cake I have ever tasted! I thought the oven temp of 275° sounded a little low, but this cake baked up (and...
Recipe #67256
Jo Mama's World Famous Spaghetti 
1,058 Reviews 
| By Sharlene~W
My kids will give up a steak dinner for this spaghetti. It is a recipe I have been perfecting for years and it is so good (if I may humbly say) that my...

Recipe #22782
Yes, Virginia There is a Great Meatloaf 
981 Reviews 
| By Nita Holleman
Absolutely delicious meatloaf and sauce! Those who claim they don't believe there can be such a thing as a great meatloaf will love this. Based on a meatloaf...
Recipe #54257
Oatmeal Raisin Cookies 
970 Reviews 
| By Bev
You've made oatmeal-raisin cookies before, so why try these? Because they're moist, chewy and loaded with raisins - and they're better than any you've...
Recipe #35813
Pancakes 
965 Reviews 
| By Ellen Brody
This is really a great recipe! It is fast, simple and you usually have the ingredients on hand. I never use a mix! I got this from my Recipe #25690
Kittencal's Italian Melt-In-Your-Mouth Meatballs 
899 Reviews 
| By Kittencalskitchen
Cooking the meatballs in simmering pasta sauce will not only add so much extra flavor to the sauce the meatballs will be melt-in-your-mouth tender, you...
Instant coffee is dried into soluble powder or freeze-dried into granules that can be quickly dissolved in hot water.[94] Originally invented in 1907,[95][96] it rapidly gained in popularity in many countries in the post-war period, with Nescafé being the most popular product.[97] Many consumers determined that the convenience in preparing a cup of instant coffee more than made up for a perceived inferior taste.[98] Paralleling (and complementing) the rapid rise of instant coffee was the coffee vending machine, invented in 1947 and multiplying rapidly through the 1950s.[99]
Canned coffee has been popular in Asian countries for many years, particularly in China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. Vending machines typically sell varieties of flavored canned coffee, much like brewed or percolated coffee, available both hot and cold. Japanese convenience stores and groceries also have a wide availability of bottled coffee drinks, which are typically lightly sweetened and pre-blended with milk. Bottled coffee drinks are also consumed in the United States.[100]
Liquid coffee concentrates are sometimes used in large institutional situations where coffee needs to be produced for thousands of people at the same time. It is described as having a flavor about as good as low-grade robusta coffee, and costs about 10¢ a cup to produce. The machines can process up to 500 cups an hour, or 1,000 if the water is preheated.[101]

Coffee is a brewed beverage with a distinct aroma and flavor, prepared from the roasted seeds of the Coffea plant. The seeds are found in coffee "berries", which grow on trees cultivated in over 70 countries, primarily in equatorial Latin America, Southeast Asia, Maldives, and Africa. Green (unroasted) coffee is one of the most traded agricultural commodities in the world.[1] Coffee is slightly acidic (pH 5.0–5.1[2]) and can have a stimulating effect on humans because of its caffeine content. It is one of the most consumed drinks in the world.[3]
Wild coffee's energizing effect was likely first discovered in the northeast region of Ethiopia. Coffee cultivation first took place in southern Arabia;[4] the earliest credible evidence of coffee-drinking appears in the middle of the 15th century in the Sufi shrines of Yemen.[4]
In East Africa and Yemen, coffee was used in native religious ceremonies that were in competition with the Christian Church. As a result, the Ethiopian Church banned its secular consumption until the reign of Emperor Menelik II of Ethiopia.[5] The beverage was also banned in Ottoman Turkey during the 17th century for political reasons[6] and was associated with rebellious political activities in Europe.
Coffee berries, which contain the coffee seeds, are produced by several species of a small evergreen bush of the genus Coffea. The two most commonly grown are also the most highly regarded Coffea arabica, and the "robusta" form of the hardier Coffea canephora. The latter is resistant to the coffee leaf rust (Hemileia vastatrix). Once ripe, coffee berries are picked, processed, and dried. The seeds are then roasted to varying degrees, depending on the desired flavor, before being ground and brewed to create coffee. Coffee can be prepared and presented in a variety of ways.
An important export commodity, coffee was the top agricultural export for twelve countries in 2004,[7] and it was the world's seventh-largest legal agricultural export by value in 2005.[8] Some controversy is associated with coffee cultivation and its impact on the environment. Consequently, organic coffee is an expanding market.
Many studies have examined the health effects of coffee, and whether the overall effects of coffee consumption are positive or negative has been widely disputed.[9] The majority of recent research suggests that moderate coffee consumption is benign or mildly beneficial in healthy adults. However, coffee can worsen the symptoms of some conditions, largely due to the caffeine and diterpenes it contains.
Coffee one of the most popular drink and its one of the most refreshing drink
Ingredients: 
1 package Chocolate cake mix (preferably dark chocolate or German chocolate cake mix) 
14 oz sweetened condensed milk 
17 oz caramel, butterscotch, or hot fudge topping for a really chocolate cake) 
Cool whip 
5 oz toffee chips (or crushed Heath bars) 
1/2 cup chopped walnuts, almonds or pecans
Directions: 
Preheat the oven to 350F. Bake the cake mix according to directions on box 30 minutes in 13-x-9 pan. Cool the cake for 15 minutes. Then poke holes in the top of the cake every half-inch with a fork. Drizzle the sweetened condensed milk over the top of cake, making sure some of it goes into the holes.
Let stand until the milk has been absorbed into the cake. Drizzle with the topping you've chosen, and then spread the cool whip on top. Sprinkle generously with toffee chips and nuts. Refrigerate if not serving immediately. Serves 10
2. Double Chocolate Cheesecake 
As with the Better than Sex Chocolate Cake, there are also quite a large number of chocolate cheesecake recipes, but Epicurious,com has one of the best. To get this delicious recipe, visit this link: Double Chocolate Cheesecake
3. Chocolate Chip Cookies 
What is a top ten list of chocolate recipes without the ultimate chocolate chip cookies recipe? For the ultimate chocolate chip cookie recipe, we go right to the source, the recipe of Ruth Wakefield, who is credited with inventing the chocolate chip cookie. Her original recipe has been adapted into numerous variations over the many years since its inception, but here is the one that delivers a chocolate chip cookie of impeccable flavor and texture. It can be found at Chocolate Chip Cookies
4. Chocolate Brownies 
Nearly as important as the chocolate chip cookie, a recipe for chocolate brownies is also a necessary addition to the list of top ten chocolate recipes. The best recipe for the fudgiest brownies can also be found at Epicurious.com, here: Chocolate Brownies
5. Chocolate Mousse 
The more difficult chocolate mousse recipe can be found here at Epicurious.com: Chocolate Mouss6. Hot Fudge 
A list of chocolate recipes isn't complete without a recipe for Hot Fudge. Epicurious.com once again provides the best recipe for Hot Fudge Sauce: Hot Fudge
7. Chocolate Peppermint Sauce 
Another great chocolate sauce topping.
Melt butter and chocolate in a heavy saucepan over low heat, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat; stir in sugar and salt gradually, mixing until well combined. (Mixture will be thick and dry). Gradually stir in cream and vanilla. Return to heat. Cook over low heat until sugar is dissolved, about 5 minutes. Cool. Stir in whipped cream and candy. Refrigerate; serve cold over ice cream.
8. Chocolate Truffles 
I've provided two recipe here, one fairly simple and one for gourmet chocolate truffles, which requires a bit more skill in the kitchen. The easier one is here at Recipezaar: Chocolate Truffles
The harder one is here at Epicurious.com: Chocolate Truffles
9. Black Satin Fudge Cake 
Another great chocolate recipe for a sinful chocolate cake. One of the most popular versions of this recipe can be found here: Black Satin Fudge Cake
10. Dark Chocolate Bark 
This simple chocolate recipe produces and amazing chocolate treat. It can be found at FoodandWine.com: Dark Chocolate Bark
New York pizza
Hoppin' John
Tacos
New Mexico green chile
Homemade buttermilk biscuits
Tasso
Whole Maine lobster
Calabash-style shrimp and hushpuppies
Kansas City barbecue ribs
Hot glazed Krispy Kreme
San Diego fish tacos
New York pizza
Hoppin' John
New Mexico green chile
Homemade buttermilk biscuits
Tasso
Whole Maine lobster
Calabash-style shrimp and hushpuppies
Kansas City barbecue ribs
Hot glazed Krispy Kreme
San Diego fish tacos
Cheese curds
Key lime pie
Philly cheese steak
Memphis pork barbecue sandwich
Lowcountry boil
Huckleberry pie
New England clam chowder
Boiled peanuts
Buffalo burger
Eggs Benedict
Pastrami on rye
Corned beef and cabbage
Pancakes with maple syrup
Everything bagel with cream cheese and tomato
Thin Mints (preferably frozen)
Frito pie
Potato knish with mustard
Silver Queen corn on the cob
Soft pretzel from a street cart
Fresh-picked blueberries
Sourwood honey
State fair funnel cake
Chesapeake crab cakes
Candied yams
Oyster dressing
Snow cone or snowball
Wild Alaskan salmon
Sautéed morels
Persimmon pudding
General Tso's Chicken
Frozen custard
Italian sausage with peppers and onions on a hoagie bun
Chili dog
Buffalo wings with blue cheese
Spam musubi
Saltwater taffy
Fluffernutter sandwich on Wonder Bread
Black and white cookie
Frybread
BLT with thick-cut applewood bacon
Baked beans
Pumpkin pie
Collards with vinegar and Tabasco
Tex-Mex fajitas with skirt steak and sautéed peppers
Fried green tomatoes
Succotash
Shrimp and grits
Hot water cornbread
Barbecue chicken pizza with red onions
Chicken fried steak
Carnitas burrito
Apple butter
Geoduck
Soft-serve ice cream cone dipped in chocolate shell (especially Dairy Queen)
Pecan pie
Catfish supper at a church or fire station
Oysters Rockefeller
Homemade cranberry sauce
Pimiento cheese
MoonPie washed down with R.C. Cola
Pickled watermelon rind
Cracker Jacks at the ball game
Smithfield ham
Meatloaf and mashed potato blue plate special at diner
Chicken and waffles
Po'Boy
Green bean casserole with 's fried onions
Stuffed sopaipillas
Turducken
Shad roe on toast
Sweet potato casserole with or without marshmallows
Cioppino
New York cheesecake
Pan-fried river trout
Jambalaya
North Carolina pig pickin'
California rolls
Burgoo
Penuche fudge
Fried peanut butter and banana sandwich (the Elvis)
Scrapple or livermush
Elk medallions in red wine reduction
Muscadine grapes
Cheeseburger at backyard barbecue
Open-face turkey sandwich
Chicago deep dish pizza
Cobb salad
Peach pie a la mode
Macaroni and cheese with Tillamook sharp cheddar
Root beer float
Baguette
Baguette
Ficelle
Flûte
Fougasse
croissant
Main courses (plats principaux)[edit]
Pot au feu
Steak au poivre (steak with black pepper)
Steak frites (steak and fries)
Poulet frites (chicken and fries)
Pommes duchesse (duchess potatoes)
Blanquette de veau (blanquette of veal)
Coq au vin (rooster in red wine)
Pot au feu (beef stew with mixed vegetables)
Cassoulet (duck with different sausages served with white beans)
Boudin blanc (delicate flavored sausage similar to bratwurst)
Andouillette (chitterling sausage)
Sole meunière
Common desserts and pastries[edit]
A mille-feuille pastry
(cream puffs, see choux pastry)
Crème brûlée
Éclair
Madeleine (a small cake-like sponge cake)
Mille-feuilles
Mousse au chocolat
Profiteroles (baked puff pastries (choux) filled with vanilla ice-cream and topped with melted chocolate)
Religieuse (chocolate éclair shaped to resemble a nun)
Tartes aux fruits (fruit tarts)
Tarte Tatin (caramelized apple tart)[2]
Crepes
Macaroons
Croissant
Pain doré ( toast)
Common canned food unique to France[edit]
Many dishes, including relatively sophisticated ones, are available as canned or frozen food in supermarkets. These products are sometimes endorsed by famous chefs. Below is a list of some of these canned items which are unique to France.
Cassoulet
Choucroute garnie
Confit de canard (duck confit)
Lorraine[edit]

Quiche Lorraine
Potée Lorraine
Fuseau lorrain
Bouchée à la reine
Pâté lorrain
Tête de veau
Tourte
Baba au rhum
Madeleine
Tarte à la mirabelle
Tarte à la brimbelle (Myrtille)
Macarons de Nancy
Glace Plombières
Alsace A typical choucroute garnie
Choucroute garnie (sauerkraut with sausages, salt pork and potatoes)
Coq au Riesling (The local Alsace variant of Coq au vin)
Spätzle
Baeckeoffe
Kouglof
Bredela
Beerawecka
Mannala
Tarte flambée
Baba au rhum
Nord-Pas-de-Calais (Artois, Flanders, Hainaut) - Picardy[edit]

Andouillette of Cambrai
Carbonnade flamande (meat stewed in beer)
Potjevleesch (four-meat terrine)
Waterzooi (sweet water fish stew)
Escabeche (cold terrine of sweet water fish in wine and vinegar)
Hochepot (four meats stewed with vegetables)
Flamiche
Normandy
Tripes à la mode de Caen (tripe cooked in cider and calvados)
Matelote (fish stewed in cider)
Moules à la crème Normande (mussels cooked with white wine, Normandy cider, garlic and cream)
Tarte Normande (apple tart)
Terrinée (a baked rice dessert)
Brittany
A sweet crêpeCrêpes
Far Breton (flan with prunes)
Kig ha farz (boiled pork dinner with buckwheat dumplings)
Kouign amann (galette made flaky with high proportion of butter)
Poulet à la bretonne (Brittany cider Chicken), simmered with navy beans, beets, and bacon, in apple cider.
Pasta
Bistecca alla fiorentina (Florentine beefsteak)
Baccalà alla Vicentina
Lasagna
Pasta e fagioli
Pizza
Ragù alla bolognese (a meat-based sauce served with tagliatelle or other pasta; the American dish Spaghetti alla Bolognese derives from this)
Fettuccine Alfredo
Salsiccia
Ossobuco
Pollo alla cacciatora
Tortellini
Basic Fried Rice
Chicken Chow Mein
Crab Rangoon
Chicken Fried Rice
Egg Rolls Sweet and Sour Sauce
Hot and Sour Soup
Orange Chicken (Quick and Easy)
Sweet and Sour Pork 
Egg Drop Soup 
Lettuce Wraps
Sesame Chicken
Peking Duck
Wonton Soup
Shrimp Fried Rice
Fun Fusion Fondue
Potstickers
Beef Wth Broccoli
General Tso's Chicken
Kung Pao Chicken (Stir-fry) Manchurian
(21)Crab Puffs
(22)Fondue Chinoise
(23)Jiaozi Dumplings
(24)Sweet and Sour Chicken With Lemon
(25)Moo Goo Gai Pan
(26)Steamed Bun Dough
(27)Char Siu Bao
(28)Szechuan Chicken
(29)Honey Walnut Prawns
(30)Vegetable Chow Mein
(31)Pork Chop Suey
Stir-fried Baby Bok Choy
Fortune Cookies
Mango Pudding
Potsticker Dipping Sauce
Fried Wonton (with pork and shrimp filling)
Bacon-Wrapped Water Chestnut Appetizer
Wonton Wrappers
Beef and Broccoli
Stuffed Calamari in Tomato Sauce – Squid stuffed with breadcrumbs, garlic, oil/milk, and 3 eggs. The stuffed squid is baked with a white sauce, cheddar and olive oil.
Deep Fried Fish/Shrimp – Fish/Shrimp dipped into batter and placed into deep fryer. Dish is typically served with lemon and/or cocktail sauce.
Linguine with Clam Sauce – A mildly spicy dish that combines Linguine pasta served with tomato sauce and cooked clams.
Marinated Eel – Bite-size cut eel deep fried and seasoned with salt and pepper marinated, after being fried, in a garlic, balsamic vinegar, and sugar sauce.
Baccalà – De-salted, by soaking water, cod cut into bite-sized portions, pan fried until brown; and served with tomato sauce and pasta.
Tiramisù – Layered dessert that incorporates layers of coffee soaked ladyfingers, marscapone crème with Marsala, and cocoa powder.

Chicken Chop Suey
Angus burger		Angus cattle were developed from cattle native to the counties of Aberdeenshire and Angus in Scotland,[2] and are known as Aberdeen Angus in most parts of the world.	A hamburger made using beef from Angus cattle. The name "Angus burger" is used by several fast-food hamburger chains for one or more "premium" burgers; however, it does not belong to any single company. Pre-made frozen Angus burgers are increasingly available from retailers.
Australasian hamburgers		Australasia	Prepared with ground beef, they almost always include tomato, lettuce, grilled onion, beetroot (canned slices), and meat as minimum, and can optionally include cheese, pineapple, a fried egg (usually with a hard yolk) and bacon. If all these optional ingredients are included it is known as a "Hamburger with the lot".[3][4] Pictured is a burger with slices of canned beetroot within it.
Banquet burger			A hamburger with bacon and cheese is a "banquet burger",[5] also known as a "bacon cheeseburger". Hamburgers with bacon but no cheese may be referred to as "bacon-burger"s.[citation needed]
Barbecue burger			Prepared with ground beef, mixed with onions and barbecue sauce, and then grilled. Once the meat has been turned once, barbecue sauce is spread on top and grilled until the sauce caramelizes. The bread bun is buttered and also spread with a light layer of barbecue sauce, then toasted on the grill.
Butter burger		Culver's began selling ButterBurgers in Sauk City, Wisconsin in 1984.[6]	In the Upper Midwest, particularly Wisconsin, burgers are often made with a buttered bun, butter as one of the ingredients of the patty or with a pat of butter on top of the burger patty.
Veggie burger			A veggie burger, garden burger, or tofu burger uses a meat analogue, a meat substitute such as tofu, textured vegetable protein, seitan (wheat gluten), quorn, beans, grains or an assortment of vegetables, which are ground up and formed into patties.
Bacon and egg pie			Bacon and egg pie is made by rolling out a pastry in a pie dish and filling it with chopped hard-boiled eggs, crushed bacon, and small amounts of salt and milled black pepper. An egg-milk mixture is then poured into the pie, and another layer of pastry is added on top.[7]
Bacon and eggs (full breakfast)	A study at the University of Alabama found that eating a breakfast of bacon and eggs may be the healthiest way to start the day because it programs the body's metabolism to burn more calories.[8] The full breakfast is a traditional food in England, USA, Canada, and Ireland.[9] Side dishes can include: black pudding, white pudding, sausage, toast or fried bread, baked beans, hash browns, pancakes, and cheese.
Bacon, egg and cheese sandwich			A bacon, egg, and cheese sandwich can be made in several ways. One way involves using a sliced bagel, a couple slices of bacon, and a fried egg layered into sandwich form.[14] Another way uses a crescent roll instead of a bagel.
Bacon explosion	The recipe for bacon explosion was released onto BBQ Addicts blog on December 23, 2008. It was instantly popular, generating 500,000 hits to the blog.[17][18] Bacon explosion is made by weaving thick-cut bacon into a lattice, spreading a layer of italian sausage on the lattice, and sprinkling crushed bacon on the top. Barbecue sauce is poured onto this mass, followed by a sprinkle of barbecue seasoning.[17] The result contains at least 5,000 calories (21 kJ).[19]
Bacon ice cream		England	Bacon ice cream (or bacon-and-egg ice cream) is a modern invention in experimental cookery, generally created by adding bacon to egg custard and freezing the mixture. Although it was a joke in a Two Ronnies sketch, it was eventually created for April Fools' Day. Heston Blumenthal experimented with the creation of ice cream, making a custard similar to scrambled eggs then adding bacon to create one of his signature dishes. It now appears on dessert menus in other high-end restaurants.
Bacon sundae		United States	The bacon sundae is a seasonal offering from American fast food chains Burger King and Denny's
Bacon martini	A bacon martini is made by soaking strips of browned bacon in vodka for at least a day.[20] It is finished when the vodka becomes opaque.[21] A bacon martini is served by pouring it into a mixing glass half full of ice cubes and mixing in a little vermouth.[20]
Bacon sandwich			A bacon sandwich is a form of sandwich made from cooked bacon between two slices of bread, usually buttered. Often some form of sauce, such as tomato ketchup or brown sauce, is included.
Bacon vodka			A bacon flavoured vodka that is often used in cocktails such as Bloody Mary or bacon martini.
Bacon-wrapped scallops			Scallops wrapped with bacon and then cooked
Bacon-wrapped shrimp			Bacon-wrapped shrimp are shrimps which have the tails removed and are wrapped in bacon.[22]
Baconator		United States	A hamburger from Wendy's that consist of two beef patties, two slices of American cheese, six strips of bacon, mayonnaise, and ketchup on a bun.
Bacone		San Francisco	A cone made of bacon filled with scrambled eggs, hash browns, cheese and topped with country gravy and a biscuit
BLT sandwich		Great Britain	A bacon, lettuce, and tomato sandwich (BLT) is a closed-face sandwich containing mayonnaise and layers of bacon, lettuce leaves, and tomato slices.[23][24] Culinary evidence shows that bacon, lettuce, and tomato sandwiches are descended from the Victorian age tea sandwiches.[25]
Chicken fried bacon		Texas	A dish from Texas, served with a white gravy or cream sauce
Chivito (sandwich)		Uruguay	A national dish of Uruguay that consists primarily of a thin slice of filet mignon (churrasco beef), with mayonnaise, black or green olives, mozzarella, tomatoes and commonly also bacon, fried or hardboiled eggs and ham. It is served in a bun, often with a side of  fries.
Cobb salad		United States	A garden salad that includes bacon, avocado, hard-boiled egg, and roquefort cheese
Coddle		Ireland	An Irish dish consisting of layers of roughly sliced pork sausages and thinly sliced, somewhat fatty back bacon with sliced potatoes, and onions.
Hoppin' John		Southern United States	Southern United States version of Rice and beans that also contains bacon and chopped onions beside the traditional ingredients beans and rice.
Hot Brown		Louisville, Kentucky	The Hot Brown is an open-faced sandwich of turkey and bacon, covered in Mornay or cheese sauce. May include other spices and tomatoes.
Jambonette		France	A  culinary term for chopped pork and bacon enclosed in rind, moulded into a pear shape and cooked.
Kranjska klobasa		Slovenia	A Slovenian sausage that consists of pork, beef, bacon and spices.
Kugelis		Lithuania	A Lithuanian national dish that can be described as a casserole made with potatoes, onion, milk, bacon and eggs and eaten with apple sauce.
Luther Burger		United States	A sandwich or burger that is made with a doughnut instead of a burger bun and contains a beef patty, bacon stripes and sometimes sliced cheese and is served with  fries.
Maple bacon donut		United States	A maple bacon doughnut is built by placing strips of bacon on a soft maple doughnut with maple icing.[26] In the pictured type, two strips of bacon lie along the donut.[27] Another version uses crushed bacon bits on an "O"-shaped donut.[28]
Mitch Morgan		Telluride, Colorado	A cocktail that consists of a shot of bourbon whiskey served with a piece of fried bacon as a cocktail garnish.
Oysters en brochette		New Orleans	A traditional dish of the Creole cuisine of New Orleans. It is skewers of raw oysters alternating with pieces of partially cooked bacon that are breaded with corn flour and then deep-fried or sautéed. The pieces are then usually removed from the skewers and served on top of triangle toasts with Meunière sauce.
Peanut butter, banana and bacon sandwich		United States	A peanut butter, banana, and bacon sandwich is a closed-face sandwich containing peanut butter, chopped bacon, and sliced bananas.[29]
Pig Candy			Pig candy is a dessert made from thick strips of smoked bacon and pecans coated them in caramel or another type of sugar.[30][31]
Pigs in a blanket (UK version)		United Kingdom	In the United Kingdom, "pigs in blankets" refers to small sausages (usually chipolatas) wrapped in bacon.[32][33]
Pīrags		Latvia	An oblong or crescent-shaped baked Latvian bread roll or pastry, most often containing a filling of finely chopped bacon and onion
Quiche Lorraine			Quiche /ˈkiːʃ/ Lorraine is a baked dish made with eggs and milk or cream in a pastry crust in the form of an open-topped pie. It contains cheese smoked bacon or lardons.[34]
Rouladen		Germany	A traditional dish in German cuisine that is thinly sliced beef with pickles and mustard that are wrapped in bacon and then broiled.
Rumaki		Germany	Duck or chicken liver wrapped in bacon
Samgyeopsal		Korea	A Korean dish of grilled at your table bacon served with a pepper sauce
Salt pork			Salt-cured pork that was a common standard portion throughout the American Civil War.
Seven-layer salad			A salad that consist of (at least) seven layers of which one is made of bacon pieces. Other layers may include iceberg lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, sweet peas, hard boiled eggs and sharp cheddar cheese. The salad is garnished with a mayonnaise-based dressing and/or sour cream.
Szalonna		Hungary	Hungarian back bacon made of smoked pork fat with the rind and traditional in Hungarian cuisine.
Slavink		Netherlands	A Dutch meat dish consisting usually of ground meat called "half and half" (half beef, half pork) wrapped in bacon and cooked in butter or vegetable
Stegt Flæsk		Denmark	A dish from Denmark of thick slices of bacon often eaten with potatoes and parsley sauce "med persillesovs"
Tatws Pum Munud		Wales	Traditional Welsh Stew made with sliced vegetables and potatoes and smoked bacon
Túrós csusza		Hungary	A Hungarian savoury curd cheese or cottage cheese noodle dish made with small home made noodles or pasta and topped with crispy fried bacon and sour cream.
Chapati	 Bread. Whole wheat flour.	Vegetarian
Rice Rice.	Vegetarian
Biryani	Main or side dish. Rice, optional spices, optional vegetables or meats Can have with plain yogurt.	
Naan	Bread. Refined wheat flour.	Vegetarian
Paratha	Bread. Wheat flour.	Vegetarian
Tandoori chicken Chicken portions, marinated with spice, and cooked in an oven (Tandoor). Chicken Have with dip.
Chole bhature Main. Chick peas, assorted spices, wheat flour and yeast for bhatura.	
Baati Ghee (Clarified butter). Wheat flour.	Vegetarian
Dal	 Main. Assorted types of lentils, such as toor, urad, chana, masoor dal.
Bhatura		Bread. Wheat flour, fried.	Vegetarian
Rajma		Main. Kidney beans & assorted spices.	Vegetarian
Dal makhani (Kali Dal)		Main. A typical type of lentil is used.	Vegetarian
Dal fry with tadka		Typical north  tadka.	Vegetarian
Daal Baati Churma		Rajasthani special.	Vegetarian
Daal Puri		Stuffed dal in parathas.	Vegetarian
Karela Bharta		Bitter gourd/melon.	Usually vegetarian
Bhindi Masala		Okra sautéed with onions and tomatoes.	Vegetarian
Sattu ki Roti		Dish from bihar.	Vegetarian
Gajar ka Halwa		A sweet dish native to U.P./Punjab. Carrot, Milk, Ghee, Cashew.	Vegetarian
Rajma Chaval		Bean curry with rice.	Vegetarian
Poha		specialty from Madhya Pradesh. Common snack in Central part of India. Flattended rice, potato, turmeric.	Vegetarian
Makki di roti, Sarson Da Saag		Punjabi speciality.	Vegetarian
Samosa		Potatoes, onions, peas, coriander, and lentils.	Vegetarian
Kachori		Rajasthani /marwari special.	Vegetarian
Kheer		Rice Cooked with Milk and dry fruits. Milk and Rice, dry Fruits.	Palak Daal		Spinach with toor daal.	
Kofta		Gram flour balls fried with vegetables. Gram flour, veggies, rolled into balls with gram flour and fried in oil and then cooked with curry.	Vegetarian
Methi Saag, Chaulai Saab		Veggie leaves sauteed in oil and garlic with little masalas. Cooked mostly in Central part of India.	Vegetarian
Khichdi		Rice cooked with daal and veggies and sauteed.	Vegetarian
Sooji Halwa		Semolina cooked with clarified butter and Dry fruits. Semolina (Suji), clarified butter, cashew nuts.	Vegetarian
Singhada Halwa		Lotus fruit dried and powdered to make this fasting sweet meat.	Vegetarian
Palak Paneer		Cottage cheese cubes in spinach gravy. Spinach, Paneer.	Vegetarian
Aloo Matar		Potatoes and peas in curry.	Vegetarian
Dum Aloo		Potatoes cooked in Curry.	Vegetarian
Gobhi Aloo		Cauliflower with potatoes sauteed with garam masala.	Vegetarian
Paratha		Matar Paratha, Paneer Paratha, Aloo Paratha, gajar paratha, mooli Paratha, all stuffed parathas with different veggies. Wheat flour.	Vegetarian
Aloo methi		Methi leaves and potatoes nicely flavoured. Potato, fresh Methi leaves.	Vegetarian
Arbi masala		Edoes cooked in onion tomato masala.	Vegetarian
Mushroom do pyaza			Vegetarian
Mixed vegetable			Vegetarian
Vegetable Jalfrezi			Vegetarian
Lauki ki subji		Bottle Gourd.	Vegetarian
Bharwaan tinde			Vegetarian
Aloo baingan			Vegetarian
Bharwaan baigan			Vegetarian
Aloo shimla mirch			Vegetarian
Lauki ke kofte		Bottle gourd.	Vegetarian
Pattor			Vegetarian
Ramatori subji			Vegetarian
Baigan bharta		Eggplant (Baingan) cooked with tomatoes or onions.	Vegetarian
Jeera aloo			Vegetarian
Kadai paneer			Vegetarian
Paneer butter masala			Vegetarian
Butter Chicken			
Amritsari fish			
Amritsari Kulcha			Vegetarian
Chana masala			Vegetarian
Misi roti			Vegetarian
Navrattan korma			
Rongi			Vegetarian
Pindi chana			Vegetarian
by playing the violin, and she has fallen into a deep sleep, "oblivious of all grief, mental and physical."
Music therapy
Intervention
ICD-9-CM	93.84
MeSH	D009147
Psychology

Outline
History Subfields
Basic types
Abnormal Biological
Cognitive Comparative
Cultural Differential
Developmental Evolutionary
Experimental Mathematical
Personality Positive
Quantitative Social
Applied psychology
Applied behavior analysis
Clinical Community
Consumer Educational
Environmental Forensic Health
Industrial and organizational
Legal Military
Occupational health Political
Religion School Sport
Lists
Disciplines Organizations
Psychologists Psychotherapies
Publications Research methods
Theories Timeline Topics
 Psychology portal
v t e
Music therapy is the clinical and evidence-based use of music interventions to accomplish individualized goals within a therapeutic relationship by a credentialed professional who has completed an approved music therapy program.[1] Music therapy is an allied health profession and one of the expressive therapies, consisting of an interpersonal process in which a certified music therapist uses music and all of its facets—physical, emotional, mental, social, aesthetic, and spiritual—to help clients to improve or maintain their health. Music therapists primarily help clients improve their health across various domains (e.g., cognitive functioning, motor skills, emotional and affective development, behavior and social skills, and quality of life) by using music experiences (e.g., free improvisation, singing, songwriting, listening to and discussing music, moving to music) to achieve treatment goals and objectives. It is considered both an art and a science, with a wide qualitative and quantitative research literature base incorporating areas such as clinical therapy, biomusicology, musical acoustics, music theory, psychoacoustics, embodied music cognition, aesthetics of music, and comparative musicology. Referrals to music therapy services may be made by other health care professionals such as physicians, psychologists, physical therapists, and occupational therapists. Clients can also choose to pursue music therapy services without a referral (i.e., self-referral).

Music therapists are found in nearly every area of the helping professions. Some commonly found practices include developmental work (communication, motor skills, etc.) with individuals with special needs, songwriting and listening in reminiscence/orientation work with the elderly, processing and relaxation work, and rhythmic entrainment for physical rehabilitation in stroke victims. Music therapy is also used in some medical hospitals, cancer centers, schools, alcohol and drug recovery programs, psychiatric hospitals, and correctional facilities.[2] bean aloo			Vegetarian
Bharwein karela			Vegetarian
Shahi paneer			Vegetarian
Mushroom matar			Vegetarian
Moong dal ka halwa			Vegetarian
Phirni			Vegetarian
Amriti with Rabdi			Vegetarian
Mathura ke pde			Vegetarian
Pinni			Vegetarian
Panjeeri			Vegetarian
Katha meetha petha/halwakadoo			Vegetarian
Sweet Pethas/ kesar petha/ pista petha			Vegetarian
Gobhi matar			Vegetarian
Gajar matar aloo			Vegetarian
Aloo baingan masala			Vegetarian
Aloo ki Tikki			Vegetarian
Kulfi falooda			Vegetarian
Paneer Tikka Masala			Vegetarian
Kadhi Pakoda		Gram Flour with Yogurt with gramflour fried balls.	Vegetarian
Chicken Razala		Bhopali style chicken cooked in a rich gravy with mint.	
Shahi tukra		Bread. Bread pudding in a rich sauce of thickened milk, garnished with sliced almonds.	Vegetarian
South [edit]

Name	Image	Description	Vegetarian/
Non-vegetarian
Dosa		Pancake/Hopper. Ground rice, Urad dal.	Vegetarian
Idli		Steamed cake of fermented rice and pulse flour. Rice, Urad dal.	Vegetarian
Wheat Upma		A Breakfast dish and Snack.Upma prepared from Wheat Dhalia Rava.	Vegetarian
Obbattu(holige,bobbattu, Pooran-poli)		A stuffed (Moong gram dal and jaggery or coconut poornam) paratha. Dish native to South and West India in the states of (Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra.	Vegetarian
Bonda		Snack. Potatoes, gram flour.	Vegetarian
Bajji		Vegetable Fritters.	Vegetarian
Pesarattu		Dosa (Pancake or Crepe) of Andhra Pradesh made from Moong Dal (lentils), grains and spice batter.	Vegetarian
Koshambri		A Cucumber salad dish popular in Karnataka. Prepared during festivals.	Vegetarian
Vada		Savory Donut. Urad dal.	Vegetarian
Goli bajje		Snack. Gram flour.	Vegetarian
Puttu		Ground Rice.	
Uttapam		Rice Pancake/Hopper with a topping of onions/tomatoes/coconut.	Vegetarian
Kuzhakkattai		Dumplings. Rice flour, jaggery, coconut.	Vegetarian
Payasam		Rice Dessert. Rice, milk.	Vegetarian
Kanji		Porridge. Rice.	Vegetarian
Kuzhambu		Thick Soup with coconut. Coconut, vegetables.	Vegetarian
Appam		Pancake, thicker at center. Ground rice.	Vegetarian
Idiappam		Steamed rice noodles/vermicelli. Ground rice.	Vegetarian
Chicken 65		Popular deep fried chicken preparation. Chicken, onion, ginger.	Non-Vegetarian
Pongal		Pulao. Rice.	Vegetarian
Parotta		Layered kerala parotta made with maida and dalda.	Vegetarian
Avial		Cocunut paste, curd mixed with vegetables and some spices.	Vegetarian
Sambar		Lentil soup with vegetables and masala mixed with rice and taken.	Vegetarian
Yelumincham sadam		Lemon rice. Rice, lemon juice.	
Thengai sadam		Cocunut rice.	
Puli sadam		Tamarind rice.	
Currivepillai sadam		Curry leaves rice.	
Kothamali sadam		Coriander rice.	
Bisi Bele Bath		Rice preparation with vegetables.	
Kaara Kozhambu		Dish used with rice made of chilli powder and tamarind.	
Kos kootu		Cabbage and lentil dish used for rice.	
Poriyal		Side dish for rice prepared from one or more vegetables with little oil stirred, with daal half boiled and coconut / mustard seeds.	
Koottu		Vegetable, daal or lentil mixture boiled in water.	
Varuval		Vegetables shallow fried in oil.	
Thayir sadam		Curd rice.	
Biryani		Spicy rice dish with vegetables or chicken or mutton or fish or prawns.	Depends on choice
Sakkara pongal		Sweet rice dish.	
 omelette		Egg omelette or veg omelette.	
Masala Dosa		Dosa with masala and potato.	
Paruppu sadam		Daal rice.	
Sevai		Kind of rice vermicilli used for breakfast.	
Sevai lunch		Kind of rice vermicilli mixed with either tamarind or lemon or coconut.	
Keerai sadam		Rice and green leaves.	
Double Ka Meetha		Bread crumbs fried in Ghee and dipped in Milk and Sugar syrup	
Keerai poriyal		Green leaves mixed with daal and coconut with little oil.	
Keerai masiyal		Grinded green leaves used as a side dish for rice or mixed with rice.	
Keerai kootu		Green leaves kootu.	
West [edit]

Name	Image	Description	Vegetarian/
Non-vegetarian
Vada pav		Burger. Gram flour, potatoes, chilli, garlic, ginger.	
Dahi vada		Fried lentil balls in a yogurt sauce. Lentils, yogurt.	
Puri		Bread. Wheat flour.	
Bombil fry		Main Course. Bombay Duck (Fish).	
Kombdi vade		Chicken Curry with Bread. Chicken.	
Vindaloo		Goan pork vindaloo. Pork, goan red chilli paste.	
Veg Kolhapuri		Vegetarian dish. Mixed vegetables.	
Dhokla		Lentil snack. Gram.	
Pohe		Vegetarian Snack. Flattened rice.	
Sabudana Khichadi		Vegetarian Snack. Sago.	
Koshimbir		Salad. Salad/side-dish.	
Upmaa		Vegetarian snack. Semolina.	
Thalipeeth		Savoury pancake. Mixed grain flour.	
Pooran-poli		Sweet stuffed bread. Wheat flour, gram.	
Modak		Sweet coconut dumplings. Rice flour, coconut.	
Chakli		Savoury snack. Mixed grain flour.	
Shankarpali		Sweet or savoury snack. Plain flour, sugar.	
Amti		Lentil curry. Split lentil.	
Chivda		Mixture. Flattened rice, groundnut, chana, masala.	
Chorafali		Spicy. Grinding of charudala, masala, sprinkle with red chilly powder on top.	
Locha		Spicy. Grinding of chanadal, masala,.	
Pav Bhaji		Veg main dish. Mix curry of onion, capsicum, peas, cauliflower potatoes.	
Khakhra		Snack. Wheat flour, methi.	
Jalebi		Sweet maida & grained semolina flour, baking powder, curd, sugar.	
Undhiyu		Mix veggi. Plantain, brinjal, carrot, green chillies, potatoes, fresh coconut and other vegetable.	
Muthiya		Snack. Whole wheat flour, methi leaves, besan/chickpeas flour and coriander leaves/cilantro.	
Dum aaloo		Veg. Main dish. Potatoes deep fry, yogurt, coriander powder, ginger powder.	
Khakhra		Snack. Wheat flour, methi.	
Bhakhri		Bread. Whole wheat flour, thicker than rotli, crispy.	
Bajri no rotlo		Bread. Thick millet flour flatbread usually grilled over coals.	
Juvar no rotlo		Bread. Thick sorghum flatbread.	
Sev Tameta		Veggie. Potatoes and sev.	
Khandvi		Snack. Besan.	
Patra		Snack. Taro leaves, coconut, seeds, dal.	
Sev Khamani		Snack. Chana dal, green chillies, ginger, lemon juice and olive oil.	
Lilva Kachori		Snack. Lilva and whole wheat flour.	
Chaat		Snack	
Methi na Gota		Snack. Fried fenugreek dumplings.	
Soonvali		Snack	
Panipuri		Snack	
Handwo (steamed dish)		Snack	
Rasya Muthia		Snack. A spicy yogurt dumpling soup.	
Daal Dhokli		Snack	
Cholafali		Snack	
Sutarfeni		Sweet	
Kansar		Sweet	
Halvasan		Sweet	
Malpua		Sweet	
Keri no ras		Sweet	
Basundi		Sweet	
Ghari (sweet from Surat)		Sweet	
Ghebar or Ghevar		Sweet from Surat	
Sohan papdi		Sweet	
Magas (or Magaj)]]		Sweet	
Sukhdi		Sweet	
Mohanthal www.kandoisweets.com		Kandoi Bhogilal Mulchand (Sweeet)	
Gud papdi (Gol papdi)		Sweet	
Penda		Sweet	
Barfi		Sweet	
Laddu		Sweet	
Shiro		Sweet roasted semolina/flour/dal with milk, butter, sugar, nuts and raisins.	
Ghooghra		Sweet	
Shrikhand		Sweet A thick yogurt-based sweet dessert garnished with ground nuts, cardamom, and saffron.	
Laapsi		Sweet coarse ground/ broken wheat cooked with butter and sugar.	
Doodhpak		Sweet A milk-based sweet dessert with nuts.	
Shakarpara		Snack. A deep fried snack made out of sugar and wheat.	
Copra paak		Sweet coconut halwa/barfi: Halwa is soft, barfi more like cake.	
Gajar Halwo - Carrot Halwa		Sweet	
Dudhi no Halwo - Bottle Gourd Halwa		Sweet	
Gur		Sweet unrefined brown sugar sold in blocks[3].	
Gatta curry		Curry. Steamed dumplings made from chickpea flour cooked in a spiced yoghurt sauce.	
Puri Bhaji		Breakfast or Snack	
East [edit]

Name	Image	Description	Vegetarian/
Non-vegetarian
Rice		Staple Food.	
Dal		Lentils.	
Bhaji		Fried Vegetables.	
Sabji (curry)		Different green or other vegetables.	
Masor tenga		An Assamese fish stew cooked with any of a variety of sour fruits including tomatoes.[1]	
Tenga Doi		Sour curd.	
Chhenagaja		Dessert. Cottage cheese, flour, sugar syrup.	
Chhenapoda		Dessert. Cottage cheese, flour, sugar syrup.	
Mishti Doi		Dessert. Curd, sugar syrup and /or jaggery.	
Roshogolla		Dessert. Cottage cheese, flour and sugar syrup.	
Machha Jhola		Curry. Fish, various spices.	
Pakhal		Rice. Fermented rice, yoghurt, salt, seasonings.	
Chingri Machher Malai-Kari		Curry. Prawn, coconut, mustard, steamed.	
Ilish or Chingri Bhape		Curry. Ilish (Hilsha fish) or prawn, coconut, mustard, steamed.	
Shukto		Curry. Vegetables, ghee, milk.	
Mishti Chholar Dal		Curry. Bengal gram, coconut, sugar.	
Shondesh		Dessert. Milk, sugar.	
Khorisa		Pickle made from bamboo shoot. It is an Assamese specialty.	
Kharoli		Pickle made from mustard. It is an Assamese specialty.	
Horioh Maas		Golden Mustard Fish Curry.	
Bora Sawul		Breakfast cereal. It is an Assamese specialty. Sticky rice, sugar or jaggery.	
Hando Guri		Breakfast cereal. It is an Assamese specialty.	
Hurum		Breakfast cereal. It is an Assamese specialty.	
Ceera Doi		Breakfast cereal.	
Kumol Sawul		Breakfast cereal. It is an Assamese specialty. Soft rice with cream & jaggery.	
Dhup Pitha		Sweet Assamese specialty.	
Gheela Pitha		Sweet Assamese specialty.	
Til Pitha		Sweet Assamese specialty. Rice powder, til, jaggery.	
Lai Haq Maas		Fish Curry with herbs & lemon.	
Maasor Tenga		Tomato Fish Curry.	
Koldil Chicken		Chicken cooked with banana flower. It is an Assamese specialty.	
Payokh		Desert.	
Lusi		Oily bread made from maida.	
Malpua		Snacks.	
Momo		Snacks. It is a Sikkim specialty.	
Loskora (Coconut Laddu)		Sweet	
Muri Laru		Sweet Bengali specialty.	
Pani Tenga		Pickle made from mustard.	
Sunga Pitha		Sweet Assamese specialty.	
Khar		Assamese specialty side dish. Papaya, banana, soda.	
Koldil Duck		Duck meat cooked with banana flower. It is an Assamese specialty.	
Goja		Sweet	
Peda		Sweet	
Bengena Pitika		Dish made of mashed brinjal.	
Alu Pitika		Dish made of mashed potato.	
Sunga Pork		Rich spicy pork curry.	
Masor Petu		Fish delicasy.	
Masor Koni		Fish delicasy.	
Konir Dom		Egg curry.	
Haq Maas		Fish curry cooked with leafy green vegetables.	
Ou tenga Maas		Fish curry cooked with elephant apple.	
Bilahi Maas		Fish curry cooked with tomatoes.	
Prawn malai curry		Curry. Prawns, coconut cream, crushed mustard seed, red chillies.	
Pantua		Assamese sweet similar to Gulab Jamun.	
Barfi: A sweet made of dried milk with ground cashews or pistachios, often served with a thin layer of edible silver foil as decoration.
Chikki: A sweet made out of peanuts and molasses.
Gulab jamun: A dessert consisting of fried milk balls soaked in sweet syrup, such as rose syrup or honey.
Jalebi: Dough fried in a coil shape dipped in sugar syrup, often taken with milk, tea, yogurt, or lassi.
Kulfi: An  ice cream in a variety of flavours such as mango, saffron, or cardamom.
Kheer: A sweet rice pudding, usually made with rice and milk[19]
Malpoa: A type of pancake, made of wheat or rice flour, deep fried and dipped in sugar syrup.
Rasgulla: A popular sweetmeat, produced by boiling small balls of casein in sugar syrup.
Sandesh: A sweet made from cheese, kneaded with fine ground sugar and molasses.[56]
Shrikhand: A creamy dessert made out of strained yogurt, often served with dried fruits such as mangoes.
Kaju Katli: Similar to barfi, mainly comprises cashew powder along with ghee, cardamom powder and sugar.
Rabri: Rabri is a sweet, condensed milk based dish made by boiling the milk on low heat for a long time until it becomes dense and changes its color to pinkish. Sugar, spices and nuts are added for flavour. It is chilled and served as dessert
Thayiru sadham a dish that is prepared with rice and curd which is mainly eaten by South .The best side dish for thayiru sadham is mavudu or any other pickle
Coffeehouse, coffee shop, and café are related terms for an establishment which primarily serves prepared coffee or other hot beverages. It shares some of the same characteristics of a bar or restaurant, but it is different from a cafeteria. As the name suggests, coffeehouses focus on providing coffee and tea as well as light snacks. Many coffee houses in the Middle East, and in West Asian immigrant districts in the Western world, offer shisha (nargile in Turkish and Greek), flavored tobacco smoked through a hookah. Espresso bars are a type of coffeehouse that specialize in serving espresso and espresso-based drinks.
From a cultural standpoint, coffeehouses largely serve as centers of social interaction: the coffeehouse provides social members with a place to congregate, talk, write, read, entertain one another, or pass the time, whether individually or in small groups of two or three people. A coffeehouse serves as an informal club for its regular members
In most European countries, such as Austria, Denmark, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Portugal, and others, the term café means a restaurant primarily serving coffee as well as pastries such as cakes, tarts, pies, Danish pastries, or bun. Many cafés also serve light meals such as sandwiches. European cafés often have tables on the pavement (sidewalk) as well as indoors. Some cafés also serve alcoholic beverages, particularly in Southern European countries.
In both Ireland and the United Kingdom, a café (with the acute accent) is similar to those in other European countries, while a cafe (without acute accent, and often pronounced "caff") is more likely to be a greasy spoon style eating place, serving mainly fried food, in particular breakfast dishes.[citation needed]
In the Netherlands and Belgium, a café is the equivalent of a bar, and also sells alcoholic beverages. In the Netherlands a koffiehuis (nl) serves coffee, while a coffee shop (using the English term) sells soft drugs (cannabis and hashish) and is generally not allowed to sell alcoholic beverages.
In France most cafés serve as lunch restaurants in the day, and bars in the evening. They generally do not have pastries except during mornings, where a croissant or pain au chocolat can be purchased with breakfast coffee.
In Italy cafés are similar to those found in France and known as bar. They typically serve a variety of espresso coffee, cakes and alcoholic drinks. Bars in city centres usually have different prices for consumption at the bar and consumption at a table.
Coffee shops in the United States arose from the espresso- and pastry-centered Italian coffeehouses of the Italian American immigrant communities in the major U.S. cities, notably New York City's Little Italy and Greenwich Village, Boston's North End, and San Francisco's North Beach. From the late 1950s onward, coffeehouses also served as a venue for entertainment, most commonly folk performers during the American folk music revival. This was likely due to the ease at accommodating in a small space a lone performer accompanying himself or herself only with a guitar. Both Greenwich Village and North Beach became major haunts of the Beats, who were highly identified with these coffeehouses.
As the youth culture of the 1960s evolved, non-Italians consciously copied these coffeehouses. The political nature of much of 1960s folk music made the music a natural tie-in with coffeehouses with their association with political action. A number of well known performers like Joan Baez and Bob Dylan began their careers performing in coffeehouses. Blues singer Lightnin' Hopkins bemoaned his woman's inattentiveness to her domestic situation due to her overindulgence in coffeehouse socializing in his 1969 song "Coffeehouse Blues". Starting in 1967 with the opening of the historic Last Exit on Brooklyn coffeehouse, Seattle became known for its thriving countercultural coffeehouse scene; the Starbucks chain later standardized and mainstreamed this espresso bar model.
From the 1960s through the mid-1980s, many churches and individuals in the United States used the coffeehouse concept for outreach. They were often storefronts and had names like The Gathering Place (Riverside, CA), Catacomb Chapel (New York City), and Jesus For You (Buffalo, NY). Christian music (guitar-based) was performed, coffee and food was provided, and Bible studies were convened as people of varying backgrounds gathered in a casual "unchurchy" setting. These coffeehouses usually had a rather short life, about three to five years or so on average.[citation needed] An out-of-print book, published by the ministry of David Wilkerson, titled, A Coffeehouse Manual, served as a guide for Christian coffeehouses, including a list of name suggestions for coffeehouses.[26]
In general, prior to about 1990, true coffeehouses were little known in most American cities, apart from those located on or near college campuses, or in districts associated with writers, artists, or the counterculture. During this time the word "coffeeshop" usually denoted family-style restaurants that served full meals, and of whose revenue coffee represented only a small portion. More recently that usage of the word has waned and now "coffeeshop" often refers to a true coffeehouse.
To obtain the nutrients and other substances needed for good health, vary the foods you eat

Foods contain combinations of nutrients and other healthful substances. No single food can supply all nutrients in the amounts you need. For example, oranges provide vitamin C but no vitamin B12; cheese provides vitamin B12 but no vitamin C. To make sure you get all of the nutrients and other substances needed for health, choose the recommended number of daily servings from each of the five major food groups displayed in the Food Guide Pyramid (figure 1).

Use foods from the base of the Food Guide Pyramid as the foundation of your meals

Americans do choose a wide variety of foods. However, people often choose higher or lower amounts from some food groups than suggested in the Food Guide Pyramid. The Pyramid shows that foods from the grain products group, along with vegetables and fruits, are the basis of healthful diets. Enjoy meals that have rice, pasta, potatoes, or bread at the center of the plate, accompanied by other vegetables and fruit, and lean and low-fat foods from the other groups. Limit fats and sugars added in food preparation and at the table. Compare the recommended number of servings in box 1 with what you usually eat.

What counts as a "serving"?

See box 2 for suggested serving sizes in the Food Guide Pyramid food groups. Notice that some of the serving sizes are smaller than what you might usually eat. For example, many people eat a cup or more of pasta in a meal, which equals two or more servings. So, it is easy to eat the number of servings recommended.

Choose different foods within each food group

You can achieve a healthful, nutritious eating pattern with many combinations of foods from the five major food groups. Choosing a variety of foods within and across food groups improves dietary patterns because foods within the same group have different combinations of nutrients and other beneficial substances. For example, some vegetables and fruits are good sources of vitamin C or vitamin A, while others are high in folate; still others are good sources of calcium or iron. Choosing a variety of foods within each group also helps to make your meals more interesting from day to day.
Increase your veggie intake by layering zucchini or eggplant instead of noodles in your lasagna.
I made a pan of lasagna for my husband using bacon in place of pasta. 
 really could go for some greasy lasagna right now. Eff lactose intolerance and unclogged arteries.
I'm eating oatmeal and pretending its pizza I have hit rock bottom
Pizza is they key to my heart lunchable pizza cold pizza pizza rolls bagel bites pineapple pizza ....pizza
I wish I lived right next to a McDonald's , Starbucks , In n out , and Dominos Pizza .
when life gets tough order a pizza
that's what my mom taught me today when she messed up our dinner
I would eat a lot more salads if they were made out of pizza
My wedding cake is going to be a pizza.
If anyone tells you that you put too much cheese on your pasta, stop talking to them. You don't need that kind of negativity in your chipotle, oreo milkshakes and pasta are possibly the greatest things ever invented
I've eaten so much pasta this week I'm pretty sure I'm like 70% noodle.
Second course gluten free pasta, shrimp w fresh organic peas, arugula, pine nuts lemon & olive oil w fresh bread. Yum 
Soft-shell crab season is upon us. Celebrate the shellfish appropriately, with bacon: http://fandw.me/1925aSh 
Kitchen tools so pretty you won’t want to hide them away in cabinets: http://fandw.me/192578W 
“We put meatballs on everything!!” says Moochie’s Metaballs owner Joanna Rendi. Even potato salad: http://fandw.me/WRWC9H 
Salad on a stick, the perfect summer snack: http://fandw.me/1b5BOPt 
Where can you get a Kobe beef burger with foie gras, truffles & truffle sauce at 2:30 a.m.? Vegas of course: http://fandw.me/1b5BMHs 
For a fantastic early summer take on caprese salad, replace tomatoes with slices of young zucchini: http://fandw.me/1b5BH6C 
#spon Chef José Andrés shares his first taste of Louisiana Seafood & his proudest accomplishment. See the interview: http://Blondies have more fun, especially with apricots and white chocolate: http://fandw.me/1b5BD6O 
Italy doesn’t have a monopoly on pasta. 7 excellent Greek versions: http://fandw.me/1b5BAaV 
 On @foxbusiness today w @JARinNY of @SothebysWine, talking wine investing. fandw http://instagram.com/p/aOe-C6JQEw/ 
 Retweeted by Food & Wine magazine
The ingredients for The Raw Bar’s immense lobster roll are simple: lobster, mayo and “a little bit of love.” http://fandw.me/1b5Bxfx 
The homemade sour-cherry syrup for these tart gin slings is also a great base for a kid-friendly soda: http://fandw.me/1b5BvnS 
Ping! Not the sound of a bell, but the word for simple grilled dishes in Laos, like this chicken: http://fandw.me/1b5BsIK  #DailyChicken
#FWkitchen #tip: Keep your herbs fresher longer 
The best recipes for June include Father’s Day-perfect ribs, amazing spring greens & a giant cake:
To avoid committing burger blasphemy, follow @bflay’s 5 commandments:  
The 6 steps to grilling the perfect rib eye, illustrated by @bourdain:
#FWEats @kkrader gets ready for a foie gras sundae: http://fandw.me/1b5BjF2 
Cooked honey is the key to @kristenlkish’s fantastic custards, which she serves in jars: http://fandw.me/12rr9ka  
Grilling master @TimByres’s wine recommendations for bbq chicken, charred steak & more: http://fandw.me/12rr7sg 
These aren’t your cafeteria’s sloppy joes: http://fandw.me/12rr6ES  
These lobsters are best steamed over seaweed, but romaine works too if you’re landlocked:
Grill once, eat twice. Great grilling recipes w/ delicious ideas for leftovers: http://fandw.me/12rr6od 
Head over to F&W's Fbook page NOW for a live Q&A with #TopChefJustDesserts alum @ZacaYoung! http://fandw.me/cLnDYM 
Don’t throw out that pickle-less pickle jar. Use the mustard seeds in there for @jamiebiss’s incredible shrimp:
Fresh Tomato & Basil salad! The basil leaves were handpicked from my herb garden
Want to transform your salt and vinegar chips into a Spanish tortilla? Find out how: http://ow.ly/lMDry 
Expand
Do grill pans really mimic grilling? @TheFoodLab investigates: http://ow.ly/lMhgm 
Father's Day is just around the corner. We're giving away a @BakingSteel, the ultimate tool for pizza-lovin' dads: http://ow.ly/lMfxP 
These sweet-and-spicy jerk chicken nachos from @NachosNY are a must-try. Get the recipe: http://ow.ly/lMeAo 
We encounter some great noodle dishes in Seoul, South Korea. Read more: http://ow.ly/lMear 
The best Bloody Marys in Boston? We've got you covered: http://ow.ly/lKrwn 
This refreshing black bean, corn & red pepper salad comes complete for summer with a zesty lime-cilantro vinaigrette: 
Finally, a new recipe! Here's how to make awesome bite-sized hazelnut brownies with a crispy wafter cookie center
Cinnamon Toast Crunchcakes!
Bacon Wrapped Peanut Butter Stuffed Okra: 
Fruit Smoothies: The Sweet Tooth Treat !
Cream Of Sweet Potato Soup Recipe
Mcdonalds Breakfast Bacon Egg & Cheese Biscuit with an Extra Hash Brown 
A man has responsibilities that's why he should take hourly naps throughout the day,smoke often,eat butter chicken &drink beer all day long.
wow i expected butter chicken, but at least i compromised with paneer
I went to the shop. I bought lemon curd. I ate my first lemon curd sandwich for about 12 years. It was ace.
Food does talk. Haven't you heard paneer mutter?
Butter chicken and paneer for lunch
One for you to try at home folks. @Chefviveksingh tells us how to do a paneer butter masala
If you are craving for some Pot Biriyani call us to order and get it delivered to your door..
Waiting to take away biriyani, fish and chicken. 
Peanut butter chocolate chip tart.
If somebody bakes banana chocolate chip muffins for me right 
According to a BBC report, consuming chocolate causes a more intense and longer emotional buzz than kissing.
Consuming chocolate after a long night out can literally cure your hangover.
