 
Turn your favorite hobby into a money-making machine.
iStockphoto/Thinkstock
Whether you're saving for an exotic vacation or to buy your first house, you're not alone in keeping a tight rein on your finances. More people are scaling back today than they did five years ago, and frankly, some just aren't able to have as much fun because of their penny pinching. If this sounds like you, hopefully you're filling up your new-found free time with an inexpensive hobby that you're passionate about, but never had a spare moment for before. And now it's time to start turning that hobby into a money-making machine.
Ok, money-making machine might be a stretch. But many hobbies really can pay off if you're good at them -- and know how to market yourself. There are so many fun ways to earn some extra cash, and we've compiled 10 of the most lucrative. Still not sure how your new-found love of knitting can make you cash? Keep reading.
 
Personal shopping is a great source of extra cash because clients pay you to do their shopping.
Jupiterimages/Thinkstock
Who doesn't like to shop? Online, at the mall and even in airport gift shops, shopping is just downright thrilling wherever the location and whatever the purchase. But whoever thought shopping could be considered a hobby, especially because if you're good at it, it requires inordinately large amounts of cash? If you've maxed out one too many credit cards, maybe it's time to start spending someone else's money. Personal shopping is a great source for extra cash, because clients pay you to do their shopping. Duties could include finding a client that perfect dress for a fancy gala, or simply picking up medicine from the pharmacy or groceries from the supermarket. Print up business cards to hand out every time someone compliments your outfit, or offer your services to busy moms or senior citizens in your neighborhood. A part-time or beginner personal shopper might charge anywhere from $15 to $20 an hour, or 10 to 15 percent of the total purchase [source: PayScale.com]. However you bill your customers, you're certain to make enough to indulge in a few purchases of your own.
 
If you love dogs, but don't have one of your own, dog walking might be for you.
Brand X Pictures/Thinkstock
Has a grandparent ever told you about the joys of having grandchildren? It usually sounds something like this: "You get to spoil them to death, and then give them back to their parents when they start acting up." Well, the same goes for dog walking. If you love dogs, but haven't taken the plunge of owning your own, dog walking is for you. Did you know people will actually pay you to play with and walk their pets? So instead of spending money on getting your own, you could be making money taking care of other people's. Most dog walkers charge between $10 and $18 per walk, depending on location and number of dogs, and overnight dog sitting can cost even more [source: Rochelle]. It's best to start your services with people you know­ -- and who trust you -- because it is a big responsibility to take care of someone's pets, so offer to sit for your friends and coworkers. Once you've established a small roster of clients, ask them to recommend your services to their friends and coworkers. If things go well, you might even be tempted to make this your full-time gig.
Baking is a talent and a science many people envy. If you're lucky enough to have the skills to excel at -- and even enjoy -- baking, you might want to take advantage and make some money at it. The majority of people who can't cook are usually willing to pay big bucks for bakers to provide their services. Start out by offering your baked goods at small art fairs or nonprofit events for free, and pass out your business card and ask for recommendations. If you're lucky, you might catch the attention of a local writer covering the event. Selling your baked goods as a catering service at events does require licensing and insurance, as well as a good bit of research. But there are easier options: Sell your goods on the weekends at local farmers' markets. As long as you're selling baked goods that don't spoil (like cream pies, etc.) you don't need a license to sell at most farmers' markets, although some do require you meet their standards and guidelines to be accepted [source: mt.gov]. If you stick to one or two items and do them well -- breads and muffins, for example -- invest in a creative logo and packaging, and set up a plate of samples, your products should sell themselves.
"I would pay someone to just come in here and get me organized!" Who hasn't muttered these exact words while searching for a receipt to complete their taxes or while standing in their closet trying to select an outfit for the day? If you're good at and enjoy organizing things, you're one lucky duck. So share your talent with the rest of us hopelessly unorganized souls -- for a small fee, of course. Put up ads on community boards, offer your services to friends of friends and have business cards made that you can hand out. You can also market your skills to local real estate agents as an unpacking and organization resource to new homeowners. And ask your clients to recommend you to their friends -- word of mouth marketing is free and can be lucrative, especially if your work speaks for itself.
If your thin wallet has prevented you from going out on Saturday night, put your guitar playing talent to good use as an evening entertainer. In addition to nightly fees and tips (which vary by city), most restaurants and bars will pick up your food and bar tab for the evening [source: Stroud]. If the bar scene isn't for you, you could teach guitar lessons. Look into teaching after-school group classes or private lessons at your home. Put up flyers in local music stores, bars, restaurants and on community boards at schools, and make your rates competitive. You don't want to price yourself out of the market.
 
Club sports, like volleyball and soccer, hire coaches, and most pay well.
Jupiterimages/Thinkstock
If you're big into sports, you can make a little money off your athleticism by coaching. There are numerous opportunities to coach throughout the year, because you can work in one or multiple sports if you're qualified. If you choose to focus on just one team sport, you can search public and private school systems for positions. School job requirements and obligations will vary by county and state, of course, and may entail more than you're able to commit. But club sports, like off-season volleyball and soccer, hire coaches as well. If you're not up to speed on the club sports in your area, check with your local YMCA, which can point you in the right direction. A club sports coaching job will still require much of your free time, but it generally pays well. Pay can vary, but Virginia's Volleyball 4 Youth pays its coaches an average of $100 per player with a team cap of $5,000 per season [source: VB4Y]. Your knowledge of and experience coaching volleyball would obviously determine your exact salary. If you can't decide on a sport, you may want to offer personal training services. Training doesn't have to take place at the gym. You could work on a one-on-one basis teaching soccer or volleyball skills, or as a running or swimming coach. Whatever you choose, charge competitive rates for your services and set a schedule for the season or training period.
Some people are blessed with the gift of craftiness. No matter what they try their hand at, their homemade creations are treasured by friends and loved ones who receive them as gifts. If you are one of these crafty few, check out etsy.com. It's a surefire way to make money selling your goods. The site specializes in homemade and vintage items, and shoppers know this and seek out the site when they are looking for original creations. Etsy.com even lets you create a business name, which becomes part of your URL. But don't stop there. You can also sell your creations at local festivals and farmers' markets, and pass out business cards with your personalized etsy.com URL. Create a Facebook page for your business and ask friends to suggest the page to their friends. Before you know it, your homemade creations, whatever they may be, could be the latest Internet craze. 
Whether you're saving for an exotic vacation or to buy your first house, you're not alone in keeping a tight rein on your finances. More people are scaling back today than they did five years ago, and frankly, some just aren't able to have as much fun because of their penny pinching. If this sounds like you, hopefully you're filling up your new-found free time with an inexpensive hobby that you're passionate about, but never had a spare moment for before. And now it's time to start turning that hobby into a money-making machine.
Ok, money-making machine might be a stretch. But many hobbies really can pay off if you're good at them -- and know how to market yourself. There are so many fun ways to earn some extra cash, and we've compiled 10 of the most lucrative. Still not sure how your new-found love of knitting can make you cash? Keep reading.
 
Personal shopping is a great source of extra cash because clients pay you to do their shopping.
Jupiterimages/Thinkstock
Who doesn't like to shop? Online, at the mall and even in airport gift shops, shopping is just downright thrilling wherever the location and whatever the purchase. But whoever thought shopping could be considered a hobby, especially because if you're good at it, it requires inordinately large amounts of cash? If you've maxed out one too many credit cards, maybe it's time to start spending someone else's money. Personal shopping is a great source for extra cash, because clients pay you to do their shopping. Duties could include finding a client that perfect dress for a fancy gala, or simply picking up medicine from the pharmacy or groceries from the supermarket. Print up business cards to hand out every time someone compliments your outfit, or offer your services to busy moms or senior citizens in your neighborhood. A part-time or beginner personal shopper might charge anywhere from $15 to $20 an hour, or 10 to 15 percent of the total purchase [source: PayScale.com]. However you bill your customers, you're certain to make enough to indulge in a few purchases of your own.
 
If you love dogs, but don't have one of your own, dog walking might be for you.
Has a grandparent ever told you about the joys of having grandchildren? It usually sounds something like this: "You get to spoil them to death, and then give them back to their parents when they start acting up." Well, the same goes for dog walking. If you love dogs, but haven't taken the plunge of owning your own, dog walking is for you. Did you know people will actually pay you to play with and walk their pets? So instead of spending money on getting your own, you could be making money taking care of other people's. Most dog walkers charge between $10 and $18 per walk, depending on location and number of dogs, and overnight dog sitting can cost even more [source: Rochelle]. It's best to start your services with people you know­ -- and who trust you -- because it is a big responsibility to take care of someone's pets, so offer to sit for your friends and coworkers. Once you've established a small roster of clients, ask them to recommend your services to their friends and coworkers. If things go well, you might even be tempted to make this your full-time gig.
Baking is a talent and a science many people envy. If you're lucky enough to have the skills to excel at -- and even enjoy -- baking, you might want to take advantage and make some money at it. The majority of people who can't cook are usually willing to pay big bucks for bakers to provide their services. Start out by offering your baked goods at small art fairs or nonprofit events for free, and pass out your business card and ask for recommendations. If you're lucky, you might catch the attention of a local writer covering the event. Selling your baked goods as a catering service at events does require licensing and insurance, as well as a good bit of research. But there are easier options: Sell your goods on the weekends at local farmers' markets. As long as you're selling baked goods that don't spoil (like cream pies, etc.) you don't need a license to sell at most farmers' markets, although some do require you meet their standards and guidelines to be accepted [source: mt.gov]. If you stick to one or two items and do them well -- breads and muffins, for example -- invest in a creative logo and packaging, and set up a plate of samples, your products should sell themselves.
"I would pay someone to just come in here and get me organized!" Who hasn't muttered these exact words while searching for a receipt to complete their taxes or while standing in their closet trying to select an outfit for the day? If you're good at and enjoy organizing things, you're one lucky duck. So share your talent with the rest of us hopelessly unorganized souls -- for a small fee, of course. Put up ads on community boards, offer your services to friends of friends and have business cards made that you can hand out. You can also market your skills to local real estate agents as an unpacking and organization resource to new homeowners. And ask your clients to recommend you to their friends -- word of mouth marketing is free and can be lucrative, especially if your work speaks for itself.
If your thin wallet has prevented you from going out on Saturday night, put your guitar playing talent to good use as an evening entertainer. In addition to nightly fees and tips (which vary by city), most restaurants and bars will pick up your food and bar tab for the evening [source: Stroud]. If the bar scene isn't for you, you could teach guitar lessons. Look into teaching after-school group classes or private lessons at your home. Put up flyers in local music stores, bars, restaurants and on community boards at schools, and make your rates competitive. You don't want to price yourself out of the market.
Club sports, like volleyball and soccer, hire coaches, and most pay well.
If you're big into sports, you can make a little money off your athleticism by coaching. There are numerous opportunities to coach throughout the year, because you can work in one or multiple sports if you're qualified. If you choose to focus on just one team sport, you can search public and private school systems for positions. School job requirements and obligations will vary by county and state, of course, and may entail more than you're able to commit. But club sports, like off-season volleyball and soccer, hire coaches as well. If you're not up to speed on the club sports in your area, check with your local YMCA, which can point you in the right direction. A club sports coaching job will still require much of your free time, but it generally pays well. Pay can vary, but Virginia's Volleyball 4 Youth pays its coaches an average of $100 per player with a team cap of $5,000 per season [source: VB4Y]. Your knowledge of and experience coaching volleyball would obviously determine your exact salary. If you can't decide on a sport, you may want to offer personal training services. Training doesn't have to take place at the gym. You could work on a one-on-one basis teaching soccer or volleyball skills, or as a running or swimming coach. Whatever you choose, charge competitive rates for your services and set a schedule for the season or training period.
Some people are blessed with the gift of craftiness. No matter what they try their hand at, their homemade creations are treasured by friends and loved ones who receive them as gifts. If you are one of these crafty few, check out etsy.com. It's a surefire way to make money selling your goods. The site specializes in homemade and vintage items, and shoppers know this and seek out the site when they are looking for original creations. Etsy.com even lets you create a business name, which becomes part of your URL. But don't stop there. You can also sell your creations at local festivals and farmers' markets, and pass out business cards with your personalized etsy.com URL. Create a Facebook page for your business and ask friends to suggest the page to their friends. Before you know it, your homemade creations, whatever they may be, could be the latest Internet craze.
If writing is your passion, there are several ways you can use this skill to make money. First, you can throw your hat in the ring as a freelance writer. Web sites, magazines and newspapers pay freelance writers for articles, and compensate either with a flat rate or by the word, although a flat rate is most common. Some Web sites also pay based on page views or advertising clicks. Another way to use your writing online is to start a blog, where you can earn money by selling ads on your site. If you're a great marketer, you can keep earning money from your advertisements long after your initial effort to write the article or blog. If this kind of writing isn't for you, try selling your skills to various businesses and corporations. It's common for them to outsource proposals, brochures, and even speech writing to contract or freelance writers. Set up interviews with local businesses and take writing samples with you. You may even consider marketing your skills to local graphic designers, who can recommend you to their current clients.
 
Shooting weddings can be a fun way to make some extra cash as a photographer.
Jupiterimages/Thinkstock
Photography is a great way to make some extra cash doing something you love. You could try selling pieces at local arts fairs or even to local boutiques if you have sellable artwork. If you're short on the cash to front the cost of printing and framing, you could always sell your work online. Be sure to brush up on copyrights to make sure you're not giving your hard work away. Another lucrative way to use photography is as a freelance wedding or portrait photographer. Although the upfront equipment and marketing costs might be higher, the payoff can be more for this type of work. For example, with a great portfolio and marketing strategy, you could charge an average of $2,700 or more for a wedding, depending on the package you offer [source: Zack].
Social

32. Hosting board game nights: Rather than go out to watch a movie for $20, invite your friends back to your house, grab some home brew and play Settlers of Catan, Monopoly or Risk. (An affiliate link – you won’t pay more, but will support my blog.)

33. Charting your family history: This can take many years to do properly, and even then, it isn’t always possible depending on your background. It would make an amazing present to a grandmother or relative when it’s complete. There really isn’t any limit on how far back you can attempt to go.

34. Get to know someone: Make a friend who is lonely or isolated. It could be a neighbour, or a relative who is in a home. It’ll make their day every time you go.

35. Listen to music: This could be in the intellectual category too. Music is great and thanks to the internet and services like Spotify, it costs next to nothing.

36. Play with your children: This is pretty obvious but children love playing and their needs aren’t great. Let’s play in a box or kick a rock! It’s all good fun and should mean not spending a cent.

37. Play cards: There are thousands of games to play with the humble deck of cards. They are cheap and last for a long time.

38. Host a regular dinner party: If your friends like cooking try to arrange a regular dinner party once a month where each group shares the cooking. It’s fun and cheap compared to a restaurant.

39. Play chess: The ultimate game that will improve your mental dexterity. You could spend your whole life getting better at this game.

40. Sex: Fairly important for the survival of the human race, free and enjoyable! What’s not to like?

41. Play a low entry cost sport: Athletics, soccer, swimming, orienteering, touch rugby, disk golf or gymnastics.  The list goes on. It’s social, good for you and frugal.

42. Learn to dance: Good exercise and fun. 

43. Host a quiz night: This could be combined with another board games night or a way to raise some money for a charity
Online

14. Surfing the internet: You probably don’t need any help with this, but in case you do, here are some great ways to find new things to look at online:

Reddit
Something Awful Forums
Watch endless free videos on YouTube
Read forums about something you like
and if you’re really stuck…
15. Start a blog: If I can do it, you can too. It’s a great way to lay down challenges for yourself and provide yourself with accountability. Telling the internet about a goal you have is a great way to stay on track. 

16. Web design: A great way to make some money on the side if you can make attractive websites or have the patience to learn how this hobby can make you decent pocket money. If you’re really successful there isn’t any reason why you couldn’t make it a full time job. It’s something you can do from anywhere and is always in demand.

17. Play free games online: Visit Kongregate.com and say goodbye to your free time. (You’re welcome.)

18. eBay arbitrage:  Like the idea of buying cheap items on eBay and selling them for profit? Learn about how to here.

19. Play online poker: You can play for free at most of the big sites. However, be warned, it’s addictive and you can lose serious amounts of money without realizing it. Poker is a game of skill as well as luck, and money can be made if you’re good enough. Still, it’s a tough way to make a dollar.

20. Become a Wikipedia editor: Help one of the most amazing internet resources stay awesome.

21. Watch documentaries: Expand your horizons. There are millions of documentaries on YouTube alone. If you like the odd things in life, check out Vice’s documentary channel.

22. Sign up to Freecycle: Another great online community based around swapping things in your local area.

23. Learn how to program: Learning how to program efficiently can be fun but also a valuable and marketable skill. If you’re already good, check out eLance and freelancer to make some money on the side.

Outdoors

24. Fishing: If you can do it from the shore or on a mate’s boat, it’s cheap, fun and a great way to pass the day with your friends.

25. Gardening: I can’t speak highly enough of gardening. It gets you outside, gives you practically free vegetables that are ten times anything you’ll get in a shop and rewards patience. It’s great. If you want somewhere to start, learn how to build an enclosed garden, or a simple raised bed using recycled materials. SproutRobot will tell you what and when to plant based on your zipcode, and even send you the seeds.

26. Guerrilla gardening:  Think gardening can’t be an extreme sport? It can’t get your heart pumping? You’re probably right – but guerrilla gardening is still pretty cool. The idea is to plant vegetables in public spaces in your community so that people can see how easy and fun it is to become less reliant on the supermarket.

27. Bush walking: Hiking, mountaineering or exploring the natural environment near you.

28.  Camping: Get a group of like-minded people together and set off to a beautiful beach, an isolated lake or a native forest. Fun will be had, guaranteed.

29. Urban fruit picking: The ying to guerrilla gardening’s yang. Find fruit in your community that is going to waste – but make sure you don’t steal anyone’s produce! The idea is to find fruit trees in public spaces that aren’t maintained. See here for more. Also here. 

30. Find free food in the country side: Learn what to look for, how to find mushrooms that are good to eat and source all sorts of berries you can turn into beer. This is a good place to start. The top ten foods to forage are here.

31. Caving: You need to know what you’re doing here to stay safe. Team up with someone who’s done it before. Be prepared to find an amazing world you’d never know was there. Not for the claustrophobic.


Hobbies for Kids and Families
	Here are some great hobby ideas for families. These hobbies are all kid-friendly!
Model Trains, Airplanes, and Automobiles
Scenic Travel by Train
Remote Controlled Toys for All ages
Building with Legos
Magic Tricks
Kite Flying
Zoos
Cruising the Seas
Puppetry
Juggling
Collecting (see section below)
We often think of hobbies as expensive, and some are. If you want to raise horses, collect antique cars, take up drag racing, or own your own plane to indulge your passion for flying, you’re going to pay a lot of money. However, there are plenty of hobbies available that are free or inexpensive. With almost any hobby, there are ways to make it less expensive. You can shop the used market, borrow or rent supplies, or trade supplies with other hobbyists. Don’t make the mistake of thinking that, just because you are on a tight budget (or don’t want to spend a lot of money), you can’t have any hobbies. Here are some ideas for inexpensive hobbies:
Reading
There are a lot of places that you can get reading material on the cheap if not for free. Use the library, shop used book stores and sales, hit thrift stores and yard sales, and read free eBooks.
Metal Detecting
Who doesn’t have the fantasy of stumbling across hidden treasure? You can buy a metal detector for under $100 (less if you buy used) and search for those treasures in your spare time. Anything you find can be sold or recycled for money.
Arts/Crafting
Crafting can get expensive, but if you create something unique or useful, you can sell it to recoup your costs. Some ideas:
Knitting
Embroidery
Cross sttich
Decoupage
Jewelry making
Painting
Scrapbooking
Latch hooking
Sculpting
Drawing
Crocheting
Wreath making (inexpensive especially if you use natural, seasonal materials)
Quilting
Pottery (Rent a wheel, got to a facility where you can rent time on a wheel, or buy used)
Paper mache
Beading
Stamping
Look for sources of less expensive supplies (clearance sales, wholesalers, trades, online stores) and try to use leftovers from one project in future projects to cut your costs. When you’re just starting out, buy the cheapest materials you can get so you don’t waste money on your “learner” projects. You can also find instructional books at the library and free/low cost classes at craft stores or community schools.
Writing
Whether it’s poetry, fiction, or just journaling, writing is basically free. You don’t have to write to publish if you don’t want to. Puzzles/Board Games/Cards
These things can keep you busy for a while for little cost:
Jigsaw puzzles
Cards (Get a copy of Hoyle’s Rules of Games for endless game ideas.)
Board games
Crossword puzzles
Sudoku
Word search puzzles
Card games (using a game-specific deck like UNO or Rook)
Chess, Backgammon, Checkers (often available as a 3-in-1 game set)
Dice games (Get a copy of Hoyle’s Rules of Games for endless game ideas.)
Find-the-items-in-the-picture puzzles
Free logic, word, and picture puzzles online
Gardening
It doesn’t matter if you rent or buy, this is a hobby that can be adjusted to either situation. Seeds are inexpensive. If you start with a small patch of land if you own, or a simple container garden if you rent, you won’t have to invest much money in fertilizer, soil, or water, either. If you can follow the frugal gardening 10 Commandments, this often thought of expensive hobby can be anything but. Even better, if you’re successful, you’ll get your money back by eating your harvest.
Photography
When many people think of photography as a hobby, they think of huge SLR cameras and professional editing software, or even a darkroom. But even small point and shoot digital cameras can give good results and GIMP is a free, open source alternative to PhotoShop. Free online photo sharing and blogging lets you post your creations.
Saving Money
The ultimate inexpensive hobby is saving money. Finding new ways to cut costs and use things more wisely and differently can be a great way to spend time. Couponing often becomes a hobby for frugal people.
Origami
All you need is some paper and instructions, which are available online or in books you can get at the library. If you get good at it, you can then use your new found skills to leave an original tip whenever you eat out.
Walking/Hiking
Both exercise and a hobby, walking has health benefits as well as being a way to pass some time. Go to a national park, local state park, nature trail, beach, or hiking trail for a change of scenery. Walking with friends is a great way to spend time together it’s a great wau to explore those places both near and far that you have always wanted to see.
Bird Watching
There is something serene and relaxing about watching birds go about their business. All you need to start bird watching as a hobby is an inexpensive pair of binoculars, some paper to write down what you see, and a book (obtained from the library or used book store) to identify your finds. Put up a feeder in your yard to attract more species.
Insect/Butterfly Watching
See number 11. The idea is the same and this is one that the kids may find a lot more enjoyable than bird watching if you want to include them in the hobby.
Collecting
Pick something you like and collect it. Maybe you like rocks, bottle caps, sea glass, small figurines, stuffed animals, trading cards, or even sand. Sure, some collections can get expensive if you chase rare items or antiques, but a simple collection can be amassed for little or no money, and you can have a great time putting it together.
Free Online Games
If you like video games but find them too expensive, try some free online offerings. There are a wide variety to choose from and you can play against people from all over the world.
Playing Music
Beginner versions of most instruments can be found used and group classes are usually inexpensive. With the wealth of resources available online today, you can probably even teach yourself.
Foreign Language
Teach yourself a foreign language using books and tapes obtained from the library, or software and online resources. You can also learn a lot by watching the subtitles on DVD’s.
Volunteering
Whatever skills or time you have can be put to use in the service of others. Find something you like to do and then find an organization that can use you.
Astronomy
Buy a used or a kids’ telescope and a star map and you’re all set. Go somewhere where there is little light pollution and see what you can find.
Meditation/Yoga
A quiet room and maybe a mat is all you need. Yoga DVD’s are available to rent or borrow from libraries and there are many workouts online.
Baking/Cooking
This has the advantage of cutting your eating out budget, too.
Blogging
Start a blog for free online and blog about whatever interests you. If you get enough traffic, you can run some ads and make a little money.
Listening to Music
You don’t have to buy CD’s to enjoy music. YouTube and Pandora are great places to discover new artists. Amazon and iTunes usually have a free song of the day and may run deep discounts on albums and other songs. And, there’s always the radio.
Museums/Zoos/Aquariums
If your area has a lot of museums, you can make a hobby out of visiting them often. If they’re government funded, they’re probably free and you can do this hobby in any new city you visit.
TV
We sometimes give TV a bad rap, but for many people it’s a hobby and not a source of wasting time. They love watching their favorite actors and seeing what’s new.
Cartooning
If you have a sense of humor and can draw, start creating cartoons.
Watching Movies
You don’t have to go to the theater. An inexpensive Netflix subscription can provide you with more than you’ll ever watch. Or, you can borrow DVD’s form some libraries.
Become an Expert
Many people have a topic that they are passionate about. Maybe it’s a sport, a celebrity or otherwise famous person, a historical period, space travel, gardening, or military history. Whatever passion you have, spend your time learning all you can about it. Before you know it, you’ll be an expert.
Kite Flying
A department store kite costs a few dollars and can be fun on windy days.
Computer Programming/Website Design
There are plenty of free tutorials available online and in library books. There are many free and open source tools available, too.
Juggling
Get three balls and use an online tutorial to teach you how.
Organize Old Family Photos
You probably have tons of old photos lying around. Spend time identifying the people and places and writing the information on the back so you’ll always know why these photos were important.
Flower Arranging
You can use inexpensive silk flowers instead of real blooms to practice your arrangements. They’re reusable so you can try them in all kinds of different arrangements.
Sports
Swimming is inexpensive if you have a community pool or a YMCA nearby. Tennis only requires a racket and some balls available at Wal-Mart. Community courts are usually free. Basketball can be played at home on your own driveway with a goal purchased used or from Wal-Mart, or you can play on community courts. The same goes for soccer and baseball.

Fishing

Rods are inexpensive, bait can be dug out of your own yard or bought inexpensively at a tackle shop. Even the required licenses only require a nominal fee. You don’t need expensive flies or rods to just drop a line in your local lake.

Art from Scavenged Materials

I recently saw someone make a giant Lite-Brite out of old water bottles and a piece of wood. Another person made a large grasshopper out of old garden hose. If you’re creative and can make things from the discards of others, there’s your hobby.

Dancing

Group instruction in most forms of dance is relatively inexpensive. Or you can just watch videos and model what you see in your own home. You’ll get your exercise, if nothing else.

Camping

Tents and other equipment are relatively inexpensive and widely available used. Camping can allow you to travel and spend time with loved ones for a fraction of a the cost of a “real” vacation.

Whittling

All you need is a knife and a block of wood to create whatever you imagine.

Genealogy

Online resources abound to help you in your search for your family history. Librarians and other family members can also help you.

Running

While running just to run can be a hobby unto itself, it gets more fun if you enter races. Local 5K’s, marathons, triathlons, and half marathons have reasonable entry fees and you usually get a lot of fun and camaraderie for your money. You can either race to win or just for the fun of entering.

Animation

You can either hand-draw your animations in a “flip book” style, or use free, open source computer software like Blender to create computer animations.

Singing

You can sing in the privacy of your own home or, if you have talent, sing in a church choir, perform the national anthem at local sporting events, or go to local karaoke nights. But if you feel like your singing could use some improvement so you can actual perform somewhere besides a karaoke bar or your shower, you can always take lessons on singing for beginners.

Sewing

You can make clothes, bags, or other household items, or sew “artsy” projects. Scavenge fabric from old clothes or clearance racks and buy your machine used or get a hand-me-down from a family member. Even a new, entry-level machine is relatively inexpensive.

Woodworking

You don’t have to build complicated projects. Simple shelves, birdhouses, and other small projects can be a good way to start and can be built from left over materials.

Plant/Flower Identification

Take nature hikes and identify the plants and flowers that you see using books borrowed from the library.

Coloring (Seriously)

Coloring books and crayons are cheap and it’s a great stress reliever and something you can do with the kids.

Sex

Enough said. In fact, great sex can save you money. Just be careful to take the proper precautions to avoid any “unintended consequences” that would definitely add considerably to your financial outlay.

Fantasy Sports

Join a fantasy sports league and build your teams, track stats, and have fun all season.

Community theater

If you have the acting bug, visit your local theater and see if you can audition for any roles.

Home Movies

Many cell phones and digital cameras have video capability, or you could pop for an inexpensive video camera. Document your family life, vacations, or pets and edit the movies in a program like iMovie.

Calligraphy

You can get the special pens at the craft store and practice using online tutorials or library books and some paper. If you get good, you could make money doing wedding and party invitations for friends and family.

Legos

Don’t get the specialized sets ($$$), but instead opt for the big box of bricks and your own imagination.

People Watching

Go where there is activity and just see what people do. Human behavior is really strange sometimes.

Part-Time Work

Some people find a job that they love, but which does not pay enough to make a full time living, to be a good hobby. If you hate your day job, do what you like to do on a part time basis.

Darts

A board and darts can usually be found cheap at yard sales or thrift stores. Just be sure to set up somewhere where you don’t mind dart holes in the wall.

Magic

Simple tricks can be learned from books or online tutorials and most use household items.

Candle Making

Supplies are surprisingly cheap at craft stores and you can make your own shapes and scents.

Public Speaking

Practice at home with family, or join Toastmaster International for a small fee to practice with others.

Cake Decorating

If you can learn to do this well, you can make some side money doing cakes for friends and family.

Take Classes

Some people make a hobby out of just taking classes through their local community college or library system. Usually inexpensive, you can take a class every term in whatever interests you at the time.

Learn Sign Language

You can learn the basics from books and online tutorials.

Take up Parkour

Sometimes hobbies don’t cost a lot of money to do, but can end up costing a lot of money if you aren’t careful when you are doing them. Parkour is a good example of this. Go for it if it’s something you think you would enjoy — just don’t hurt yourself or do anything illegal.
Planking
There are some strange hobbies that take off for unknown reasons. Planking is one of these. Again, don’t do anything illegal or get hurt.
Geocaching or Letterboxing
If you already have a GPS capbable device, you can get into geocaching for little money. If not, try letterboxing which is much the same but uses old school supplies like a compass and paper. You’ll defintely get to know some out of the way places even in areas that you thought you knew well.
Storm Chasing
Please, don’t get killed. Seriously.
Meteorology
If storm chasing isn’t your thing, you can still follow the weather with your own wind gauge, thermometer and barometer. Learn about clouds, storms, and get better at reading changing weather patterns.
Graphic Design
If painting with actual paint’s not your thing, you can try graphic design. There are a lot of free software programs available online.
Hobbies are limited by your imagination. For more ideas, visit your local community college or look at some community bulletin boards to see what kinds of activities are being taught or offered. You’ll likely find that many of these offerings are free or low cost and may become your next hobby. Just be sure that you don’t get so involved in the hobby that is ends up being a cause of unemployment — or if you do love it so much, make sure that you take the steps to make your hobby a money earner.
Reading
Watching TV
Family Time
Going to Movies
Fishing
Computer
Gardening
Renting Movies
Walking
Exercise
Entertaining
Hunting
Shopping
Traveling
Sleeping
Socializing
Sewing
Golf
Church Activities
Relaxing
Playing Music
Housework
Crafts
Bicycling
Playing Cards
Hiking
Cooking
Eating Out
Dating Online
Camping
Working on Cars
Writing
Boating
Motorcycling
Animal Care
Bowling
Painting
Dancing
Horseback Riding
Theater
Billiards
Beach
Volunteer Work

Wood carving.  
All I use for carving is a set of wood files, a razor, a chisel, and a small block of wood that Home Depot doesn't even bother to charge for.  It's a lot of fun, cheap, and is ultimately very gratifying.   
So far I've made a pretty decent horse, dog, name placard, canoe, etc.  And despite my artistic talent being far below average, my carvings usually turn out to be pleasant surprises.    
Michaelangelo, on how he carved David: "I just chipped away everything that did not look like David."
Priyanka Somashekar 
Origami !!!
Playing with the square sheet of colorful paper is real fun :D
Matt Brown 
I happen to love building and flying RC airplanes. The possibilities are endless from tiny micro flyers to giant scale rc airplanes. 
Some folks focus more time and expertise on building scale airplanes with every find detail down to the position of the rivets are taken into consideration.
Some folks dedicate their lives to perfecting aerobatic maneuvers just like the full scale airplanes. They compete in competitions across the world.
But the majority of the folks in the hobby enjoy sitting back and enjoying a sunny summer afternoon hanging out with the flying buddies and the local club.
If your interested in this very interesting hobby, check out http://www.hooked-on-rc-airplane... .
Susheel Bola ‏@SushieGB 59m
I honestly love messing with people #hobbies
Expand
 auctionsun ‏@auctionsun 1h
http://www.auctionsun.com  A fascinating Profession To Pursue http://goo.gl/fb/hhCmA  #hobbies #bloging
Expand
 Laken ‏@kewlkiddd0 3h
Burping to racks by Y.C #mindprobs #mental #really #bored #hobbies
Expand
 Leonard The Wizard ‏@leonardthewiz 4h
@merival c'man, there's comics and movies and geography and woodworking and working out and pyrotechnics and space exploration and #hobbies
 View conversation
 Brandon Whittle ‏@btw75 4h
So there are three people taking pictures of every license plate with my initials on it and posting to twitter. Looking for @btw75 #hobbies
Expand
 Nikka♡ ‏@RenzNikks 6h
Dota, studies, eating, watching, playing basketball, volleyball, badminton. #hobbies
 Expand
 Hobbies Puerto Rico ‏@hobbiespr 6h
Forum: Se Vende 2 Xray 808 Buggy Rolling Chassis: Para la venta 2 rolling chassis de bugg... http://xurl.me/16aMQCJ  #hobbies #puertorico
Expand
 Mon$$$y_No_Machine ‏@Lil_BkLacc 7h
$hooting Dice Is 1 Of My #Hobbies
Expand
 Lieta_ ‏@KeEpgoinDntStp 7h
#hobbies #bikelife 😁😁😁 http://instagram.com/p/ab5JHMHWWD/ 
Expand
 A.F. DeVito ‏@afdevito 7h
Check out the gorgeous wood we found! It reminds me of marble. #Hobbies pic.twitter.com/fjLQSiApgF
 View photo
 A.F. DeVito ‏@afdevito 7h
It's finally finished! My dad and I custom designed and built this beautiful entertainment center: #Hobbies pic.twitter.com/qfAflvfMVM
 View photo
 Joseph Rey Alcala ‏@jrcalcala 19h
My turn to cook for my beautiful wife and beloved parents. #cooking #hobbies http://instagram.com/p/aaqkbYmItZ/ 
Expand
 Whatcha Say JOSUE?! ‏@Jueceman15 10 Jun
Yes i love exploring music and finding new sounds #hobbies
Expand
 Keith Ramsey ‏@AlfaSpartan 10 Jun
RMG: Singer/Songwriter Francis Dunnery to Play House Concert at Bayfront… http://goo.gl/fb/ZXW6w  #hobbies #music
Expand
 Jessi Peters ‏@jessipeters 9 Jun
So fun to find your lost credit card just days after you've cancelled it. #hobbies
Expand
 Widowspeak ‏@widowspeaking 8 Jun
getting ready to build a model swamp. #hobbies http://fb.me/1JsXlWM2w 
Expand
 中村 Eir ‏@EirNakamura 5 Jun
Why does everybody hate it when I touch their belly button? #hobbies
Expand
 Dan Rozenson ‏@SixToolPlayer 5 Jun
Guitarists look at pictures of other guitarists and check what chord the guy's playing. I look at pitchers and check their grips. #hobbies
Expand
 Bill Daflos ‏@Bill_daflos 5 Jun
Save Money On Your... http://keboto.org/save-money-on-your-printers-ink-cartridges-and-print-the-most-exciting-stuff-around/ … #hobbies
Expand   Reply  Retweet  Favorite   More
 YouBeauty ‏@YouBeauty 4 Jun
Engaging in activities that make you happy brings out your most beautiful self. What's your favorite hobby? #YouTalk #hobbies
Expand
 Kellyco Detectors ‏@KellycoDetector 4 Jun
Trend alert! Geocaching is one of the fastest growing hobbies! Here is a great article on it: http://bit.ly/15xL91l 
#treasure #hobbies
Expand
 Bhavini Tanna ‏@bhavinii 2 Jun
Cooking is joy that tickles your near n dear ones taste buds n leave them craving for more ! #UnexpectedJoys http://lurnq.com/lesson/Science-and-Cooking/ … #hobbies
Expand
 FamilyShare ‏@familyshare 31 May
Finding cheaper #hobbies or cheaper ways to enjoy your hobbies http://familysha.re/lAF89  http://ow.ly/i/2fwcy 
 View photo
 mom.me ‏@momdotme 31 May
Let's hope your kids are collecting rocks and not one of these 10 bizarre collections http://bit.ly/18AOC3m  #kids #hobbies
Expand
 CV Surgeon ‏@CV_Surgeon 31 May
Our team, the Bournemouth Foxes, finish with a mid-table position. Bring on next season! http://www.cv-surgeon.co.uk/blog/cv-surgeons-bournemouth-foxes-finish-season-on-a-high … #football #hobbies
Expand
 Lauren Taveras ‏@LaurenTaveras 29 May
Be sure to follow me on @tumblr to keep up to date on my interests!! #interests #hobbies  http://live-life-lauren.tumblr.com/ 
Expand
 Gioia Guerzoni ‏@GioiaGuerzoni 27 May
Every year I buy a few Indian thermometers because they break easily. So I play with mercury #hobbies http://instagram.com/p/Z0V85dCme5/ 
Expand
 NewOrleansMomsBlog ‏@NOLAMomsBlog 27 May
5 minutes to fabulous: quick and easy makeup routine for moms http://goo.gl/fb/UFPcW  #healthfitness #hobbies
Expand
 Aaron Carter ‏@AARONCARTER 24 May
#Hobbies http://instagram.com/p/Zs5hdFx1-X/ 
Expand
 PR News ‏@prlogd 23 May
Serious Toyz' Auction #55, twice delayed, is now online, with nearly 1,300 lots; will end May 30-31 http://prlog.org/12143574  #Hobbies
Expand
 John Maczuzak ‏@johnmaczuzak 19 May
For anyone that argues that cheerleading is a sport because its on ESPN, then you're calling poker a sport too. #hobbies
Expand
 Karen Petrauskas ‏@KJPsunshine 18 May
Do You Have A Hobby That Could Earn You Extra Income? | Karen Petrauskas Blog http://www.empowernetwork.com/karenjp/blog/do-you-have-a-hobby-that-could-earn-you-extra-income/ … #hobbies #networking
Expand
 David Ning ‏@MoneyNing 16 May
Are you spending too much on your #hobbies? Enjoy yourself while #saving money http://ow.ly/kY2m5 
Expand
 Sydney Little ‏@syddlitt 5 May
Theres casually creeping someones tweets, and then theres creeping someones tweets until you know their neighbors cousins dogs name #hobbies
Expand
 Brooklyn Collins ‏@brookcollins23 3 May
How to laugh: every time a teenager walks outside Emily's house, run outside and scream "Hey Kate!" #hobbies
Expand
 Bass(ed) -D- ingo ‏@Phor_dingo 2 May
The amount of money I've put into my car is enough to buy a fursuit, and im okay with that #hobbies #priorities
Expand
 Jess Vliegenthart ‏@TheVlieagle 29 Apr
Bacon cheddar quiche, red wine and the BC leadership debate. Mmm mmm good. #hobbies
Expand
 Kenny Florian ‏@kennyflorian 26 Apr
Yelling "I'm the man" at animals that are significantly smaller & weaker than me is just one of the ways I like to pass the time. #hobbies
Expand
 Catherine Gonzales ‏@keedycat21 23 Apr
Just call me crafty cat :) Woo mastered #needlepoint with my first lesson! #hobbies pic.twitter.com/MKKFX79EtD
I don't dislike walking and taking photographs ... oh, and I've knocked a few guidebooks together. http://glipho.com/propercharlie/i-don-t-dislike-walking-and-taking-photographs-oh-and-i-ve-knocked-a-few-guidebooks-together-retired-i-wander-sometimes-aimlessly-in-the-countryside … #hobbies
Arts / Crafts Business
Beadwork
Candle & Soap Making
Crochet
Cross-Stitch
Drawing / Sketching
Embroidery
Family Crafts
Jewelry Making
Knitting
Needlepoint
Origami
Painting
Pottery
Quilting
Rubber Stamping
Scrapbooking
Sewing
Woodworking
Collecting
Action Figures
Antiques
Coins
Collectibles
Comic Books
Doll Collecting
Manga
Miniatures
Stamps
Weapons
Electronic Games
Computer Action Games
Internet Games
PlayStation Games
Sim Games
Video Game Cheats
Wii Games
Xbox Games
Games
Board / Card Games
Poker
Puzzles
Pastimes
Birding / Wild Birds
Casino Gambling
Cigars
Contests & Sweepstakes
Coupons / Bargains
Dance
Freebies
Freshwater Aquariums
Gardening
Genealogy
Guitar
Home Theater
Magic & Illusion
Model Railroad Trains
Motorcycles
Photography
Piano
Radio Controlled Vehicles
Saltwater Aquariums
Sports Gambling

Indoors[edit]
An example of an amateur radio station with four transceivers, amplifiers, and a computer for logging and for digital modes. On the wall are examples of various awards, certificates, and a reception report card (QSL card) from a foreign amateur station.
A vintage scrapbook
Amateur radio [1]
Audiophilia
Baking
Basket weaving
Bboying
Baton twirling
Chainmail making
Conlanging
Cooking
Coloring
Crocheting
Creative writing
Dance
Drawing
Fishkeeping
Games Club - Dungeons and Dragons, Monopoly, Etc.
Genealogy
Herpetoculture
Home automation
Home Movies
Homebrewing
Inline Skating
Jewelry making
Juggling
Knapping
Knitting
Lapidary
Locksport
Magic
Musical instruments
Origami
Painting
RC cars
Scrapbooking
Sculpting
Sewing
Singing
Taxidermy
Woodworking
Worldbuilding
Writing
Yo-yoing
Outdoors[edit]
Bonsai
Camping
Canoeing
Cycling
Driving
Freerunning
Gardening
Golf
Hunting
Hiking
Hooping
Jogging
Kayaking
Kiteboarding
LARPing
Motor sports
Mountain biking
Machining
Nordic skating
Parkour
Photography
Sailing
Tai Chi
Urban exploration
Vehicle restoration
Water sports
Collection hobbies[edit]

Indoors[edit]
Antiquing
Art collecting
Book collecting
Card collecting
Coin collecting
Element collecting
Stamp collecting
Stone collecting
Vintage Books
Vintage car
Vintage clothing
Record collecting
Outdoors[edit]
Antiquities
Auto audiophilia
Fossil hunting
Insect collecting
Leaf collecting and pressing
Metal detecting
Mineral collecting
Petal collecting and pressing
Rock collecting
Seaglass collecting
Seashell collecting
Rock stacking
In the 13th century, the term "hobyn" had the meaning of "small horse or pony". The term "hobbyhorse" was documented in a 1557 payment confirmation for a "Hobbyhorse" from Reading, England.[1] The item, originally called a "Tourney Horse", was made of a wooden or basketwork frame with an artificial tail and head. Designed to mimic a real horse, the hobbyhorse was used for religious activities and civic occasions. By 1816 the derivative, "hobby", was introduced into the vocabulary of an unknown number of English people.[2] Over the course of subsequent centuries, the term came to mean "recreational" or "leisurely pursuit".
Hobbies are practiced primarily for interest and enjoyment, rather than financial reward. In the 17th century, the term was used in a pejorative sense due to the childish origins of the term. Referring to the origin of the word; engaging in one's hobby equated to the horse outfit from the term's formulation and was considered a puerile overindulgence that would yield no benefit.[3]
In the 21st century, personal fulfillment is the aim of hobbies in First World Western nations and they are widely considered to be helpful in such societies. Although, in the United Kingdom (UK), the pejorative noun "anorak", similar to the Japanese word "otaku", has the meaning of being a geek or enthusiast), and is often applied to people who obsessively pursue a particular hobby that others consider boring.[4]
Development into other ventures[edit]

There have been instances where hobbies have led to significant developments beyond the personal fulfillment for those involved. Amateur astronomers have made significant contributions to the profession, and hobbyists have made discoveries such as finding an unknown celestial body or celestial event. In the area of computer programming, the invention of the Linux operating system began as a student's hobby. A substantial amount of early scientific research came from the hobby activities of the wealthy.[citation needed]
Hobbies have also risen to prominence after a period of relatively low interest. For example, a British conservationist was seen wearing field glasses at a London train station in the 1930s and was consequently asked if he was going to the horse races.[citation needed] Whilst the general public was not aware of nature observation which was formally conducted as field research, during the 1930s, practitioners of the hobby went on to become the pioneers of the conservation movement that flourished in the UK from 1965 onwards. Eventually, it became a global political movement within a generation's time span.[citation needed]
Types[edit]

For a more comprehensive list, see List of hobbies .
Collecting
Collectable • Antique • Antiquities
Terms
Ephemera • Premium
Prize • Souvenir
Special edition

Topics
List of collectables
List of hobbies

This box: view talk edit
Collecting[edit]
Main article: Collecting
For a more comprehensive list, see List of collectibles.
The hobby of collecting includes seeking, locating, acquiring, organizing, cataloging, displaying, storing, and maintaining whatever items are of interest to the individual collector. Some collectors are generalists, accumulating merchandise, or stamps from all countries of the world. Others focus on a subtopic within their area of interest, perhaps 19th century postage stamps, milk bottle labels from Sussex, or Mongolian harnesses and tack.


A stamp album used in stamp collecting.
Many coin collections are also referred to as date sets, and may be stored in coin holders. The most popular[citation needed] of the coin holders for date sets are called coin albums.[5]
Specialized commercial dealers that trade in the items being collected, as well as related accessories, may have started as collectors themselves, eventually turning their hobby into a profession.
One's finances may be a restriction on the more extravagant hobbies. For example, someone who has the financial means to collect stamps might not be able to collect sports-cars.
One alternative to collecting physical objects is collecting experiences of a particular kind. Examples include creating a list through observation or photography, train spotting, aircraft spotting, metrophiles, bus spotting, bird-watching, and systematically visiting continents and countries to collect stamps in their passports,or visiting various states, national parks, counties etc. The game I-Spy is related to collecting.
Outdoor recreation[edit]
Outdoor pursuits are the group of activities which are dependent on the outdoors, These hobbies include gardening, hill walking, hiking, backpacking, canoeing, climbing, caving, fishing, wildlife viewing and engaging in watersports and snowsports.
Depending on an individuals desired level of adrenaline, outdoors experiences are considered one type of hobby. While many enjoy an adrenaline rush or just an escape from reality, outdoor recreational activities can also be an extremely effective medium in education and team building. It is this ethos that has given rise to links with young people, such as the Duke of Edinburgh's Award and PGL, and large numbers of outdoor education centers that have been established as the stress on the importance of a balanced and widespread education continues to grow.
As interest increases, so has the desire for commercial outdoor pursuits. Outdoor recreational supply stores have opened in large numbers and are thriving, as have outdoor pursuit journalism and magazines, both on paper and the internet.
The increased accessibility of outdoor pursuit resources has been the source of some negative publicity over the years, with complaints of landscape destroying. An example is the destruction of hillsides as footpaths are eroded due to an excessive number of visitors.
Performing arts[edit]


An amateur magician performing.
Many hobbies involve performances by the hobbyist, such as singing, acting, juggling, magic, dancing, playing a musical instrument, martial arts and other performing arts.
Creative hobbies[edit]
Some hobbies result in an end product. Examples of this would be woodworking, photography, moviemaking, jewelry making, software projects such as Photoshopping and home music or video production, making bracelets, artistic projects such as drawing, painting, etc., creating models out of cardstock or paper - called papercraft. Hobbies also include higher-end projects like building or restoring a car, or building a computer from scratch.
For computer savvy do-it-yourself hobbyists, CNC (Computer Numerical Control) machining is also popular. A CNC machine can be assembled and programmed to make different parts from wood or metal.[6]
Scale modeling/dioramas[edit]
Making a replica of a real object in a smaller scale goes back to prehistoric times with small clay "dolls" and other children's toys having been found near known populated areas. The Greeks, Romans, and Persians took the form to a greater depth during their years of world domination, using scale replicas of enemy fortifications, coastal defense lines, and other geographic fixtures to plan battles.
At the turn of the Industrial Age and on through the 1920s, families could often afford things such as electric trains, wind-up toys (typically boats or cars) and the increasingly valuable tin toy soldiers.
Model engineering refers to building functioning machinery in metal, such as internal combustion motors and live steam models or locomotives. This is a demanding hobby, requiring a multitude of large and expensive tools, such as lathes and mills. This hobby originated in the United Kingdom in the late 19th century, later spreading and flourishing in the mid-20th century. Due to the expense and space required, it is becoming rare.
Scale modeling as we know it today became popular shortly after World War II. Before 1946, children as well as adults were content in carving and shaping wooden replicas from block wood kits, often depicting enemy aircraft to help with identification in case of an invasion.
With the advent of modern plastics, the amount of skill required to get the basic shape accurately shown for any given subject was lessened, making it easier for people of all ages to begin assembling replicas in varying scales. Superheroes, aeroplanes, boats, cars, tanks, artillery, and even figures of soldiers became quite popular subjects to build, paint and display. Although almost any subject can be found in almost any scale, there are common scales for such miniatures which remain constant today. The most popular[citation needed] scales for each subject are (in order[citation needed] of popularity):


A coffee-table sized model railroad.
Cars (1:24, 1:25, 1:32)
Railroads (1:87/1:76, 1:160, 1:220, plus ridable "backyard railroads", 1:8 and smaller.)
Planes (1:48, 1:72, 1:32)
Armor (1:35, 1:72: 1:48)
Soldiers (1:32, 1:35, 1:48, 1:6)
Figures are probably the most variable of all subjects in terms of scale and are often referred to as their metric equivalent; for example, a 1:32 scale figure soldier is more commonly described as "54mm". Likewise other popular sizes are 90mm, 120mm and almost every increment in between. An example of a diorama hobby is Warhammer 40,000, from Games Workshop.
In addition to plastic kits, resin has become a popular material for "short[clarification needed] run" productions. The level of detail is often quite exquisite, and while more expensive than the typical plastic soldier, is much easier to work with and modify, compared to White Metal or Pewter figures.
The advent of small and cheap computers, sensors (often derived from the smartphone industry), and radio equipment allowed hobbies such as Radio-controlled aircraft, cars, and toy robots to become more popular.
Scale modeling is no longer a high growth industry as it was during the 1960s and 1970s, but there are still thousands of retail shops selling kits, supplies, paints, and tools to support new and established hobbyists. There are more companies producing varieties of kits on subjects than ever before, and the levels of detail have become unbelievably accurate with the advent of modern drafting and molding equipment. Digitized CAD software have also contributed to this allowing accuracy of up to 1/1000 of an inch.
With more costly kits seeing an upward trend and youth entertainment moving more towards computers and in-home video gaming, the average age of the avid hobbyist is now older than ever before — with adults making up the vast majority of enthusiasts. At the same time, there are probably more people building from kits now than ever, and there is a large selection of supportive magazines such as Fine Scale Modeler, Military Miniatures in Review (MMiR) and Tamiya Magazine from every era. There are several modeling clubs in most cities, with the largest being International Plastic Modellers' Society (IPMS). IPMS has support chapters and contests around the world.
Cooking[edit]
Cooking requires applying heat to a food which usually, though not always, chemically transforms it, thus changing its flavor, texture, appearance, and nutritional properties. It encompasses a vast range of methods and tools, and may also be used to improve the digestibility of food. It may require the selection, measurement and combining of ingredients in an ordered procedure in an effort to achieve the desired result. Constraints on success include the ambient conditions, tools and the skill of the individual cook.
The diversity of cooking worldwide reveals the myriad of nutritional, aesthetic, agricultural, agronomic, economic, cultural and religious considerations that have an impact upon it.
Cooking properly, as opposed to roasting, requires the boiling of water or oil in a receptacle, and was practiced at least since the 10th millennium BC with the introduction of pottery. There is archaeological evidence of roasted foodstuffs, both animal and vegetable, in human (Homo erectus) camp sites dating from the earliest known use of fire some 800,000 years ago.[citation needed]
Gardening[edit]


Gardening.
Residential gardening most often takes place in or about ones own residence, in a space referred to as the garden. Although a garden typically is located on the land near a residence, it may also be located on a roof, in an atrium, on a balcony, in a windowbox, or on a patio or vivarium.
Gardening also takes place in non-residential green areas, such as parks, public or semi-public gardens (botanical gardens or zoological gardens), amusement and theme parks, along transportation corridors, and around tourist attractions and hotels. In these situations, a staff of gardeners or groundskeepers maintains the gardens.
Indoor gardening[edit]


A variety of flowers and vegetables in an indoor garden.
Indoor gardening is growing houseplants within a residence or building, in a conservatory, or in a greenhouse. Indoor gardens are sometimes incorporated into air conditioning or heating systems.
Water gardening[edit]
Water gardening is growing plants that have adapted to pools and ponds. Bog gardens are also considered a type of water garden. These all require special conditions and considerations. A simple water garden may consist solely of a tub containing the water and plant(s).
Container gardening[edit]
Container gardening is concerned with growing plants in containers that are placed above the ground.
Reading[edit]
Reading, such as reading books, ebooks, magazines, comics, or newspapers, along with browsing the internet is a common hobby, and one that can trace its origins back hundreds of years. A love of literature, later in life, may be sparked by an interest in reading children's literature as a child.[7]
Sports[edit]
People who enjoy playing sports may be amateur athletes who play recreationally.

