Do not dwell in the past, do not dream of the future, concentrate the mind on the present moment.
Buddha 
Future, Mind, Past
Throughout life people will make you mad, disrespect you and treat you bad. Let God deal with the things they do, cause hate in your heart will consume you too.
Will Smith 
God, Hate, Heart
A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable, but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.
George Bernard Shaw 
Mistakes, Making, Useful
Life is a song - sing it. Life is a game - play it. Life is a challenge - meet it. Life is a dream - realize it. Life is a sacrifice - offer it. Life is love - enjoy it.
Sai Baba 
Love, Game, Sacrifice
Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one's definition of your life; define yourself.
Harvey Fierstein 
Yourself, Silence, Accept 

When I stand before God at the end of my life, I would hope that I would not have a single bit of talent left, and could say, 'I used everything you gave me'.
Erma Bombeck 
God, Hope, End 
Believe that life is worth living and your belief will help create the fact.
William James 
Help, Living, Fact
Don't go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first.
Mark Twain 
Saying, Living, Here
All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better.
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
Experiment
The truth is you don't know what is going to happen tomorrow. Life is a crazy ride, and nothing is guaranteed.
Eminem 
Truth, Crazy, Tomorrow
You will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of. You will never live if you are looking for the meaning of life.
Albert Camus 
Happiness, Happy, Looking
Life is a dream for the wise, a game for the fool, a comedy for the rich, a tragedy for the poor.
Sholom Aleichem 
Wise, Fool, Game
Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.
Confucius 
Simple, Making, Insist
How far you go in life depends on your being tender with the young, compassionate with the aged, sympathetic with the striving and tolerant of the weak and strong. Because someday in your life you will have been all of these.
George Washington Carver 
Strong, Young, Far
Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or present are certain to miss the future.
John F. Kennedy 
Change, Future, Past
Open your eyes, look within. Are you satisfied with the life you're living?
Bob Marley 
Eyes, Living, Within
I still find each day too short for all the thoughts I want to think, all the walks I want to take, all the books I want to read, and all the friends I want to see.
John Burroughs 
Friends, Thoughts, Short
Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined.
Henry David Thoreau 
Dreams, Direction, Imagined
Life is what happens while you are busy making other plans.
John Lennon 
Busy, Making, While
My formula for living is quite simple. I get up in the morning and I go to bed at night. In between, I occupy myself as best I can.
Cary Grant 
Best, Morning, Simple
Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don't resist them - that only creates sorrow. Let reality be reality. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like.
Lao Tzu 
Forward, Reality, Whatever
Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile.
Albert Einstein 
Others, Lived, Worthwhile
A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.
Charles Darwin 
Time, Value, Waste
I have a simple philosophy Fill what's empty. Empty what's full. Scratch where it itches.
Alice Roosevelt Longworth 

Quotes tagged as "life" (showing 1-30 of 3,000)

“Don't cry because it's over, smile because it happened.” 
― Dr. Seuss
 attributed-no-source, cry, crying, experience, happiness, joy, life, optimism, sadness, smile, smiling 103,666 

“I'm selfish, impatient and a little insecure. I make mistakes, I am out of control and at times hard to handle. But if you can't handle me at my worst, then you sure as hell don't deserve me at my best.” 
― Marilyn Monroe
 attributed-no-source, best, life, love, mistakes, out-of-control, truth, worst 94,770 

“You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listening,
And live like it's heaven on earth.” 
― William W. Purkey
 dance, heaven, hurt, inspirational, life, love, sing 74,204 

“You only live once, but if you do it right, once is enough.” 
― Mae West
 humor, life 62,015 

“In three words I can sum up everything I've learned about life it goes on.” 
― Robert Frost
 life 56,519 
“Insanity is doing the same thing, over and over again, but expecting different results.” 
― Narcotics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous
 humor, insanity, life, misattributed-albert-einstein 44,527 

“To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.” 
― Oscar Wilde
 life 38,459 

“It is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for what you are not.” 
― André Gide, Autumn Leaves
 life, love 34,677 

“Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.” 
― Allen Saunders
 fate, life, misattributed-john-lennon, planning, plans 33,107 

“There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle.” 
― Albert Einstein
 inspirational, life, live, miracle, miracles 31,813 

“Good friends, good books, and a sleepy conscience this is the ideal life.” 
― Mark Twain
 books, contentment, friends, friendship, life 26,731 

“It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live.” 
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
 dreams, life 24,106 
 think I have ended up where I needed to be.” 
― Douglas Adams, The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul
 life, navigation 21,939 
“Life is an opportunity, benefit from it.
Life is beauty, admire it.
Life is a dream, realize it.
Life is a challenge, meet it.
Life is a duty, complete it.
Life is a game, play it.
Life is a promise, fulfill it.
Life is sorrow, overcome it.
Life is a song, sing it.
Life is a struggle, accept it.
Life is a tragedy, confront it.
Life is an adventure, dare it.
Life is luck, make it.
Life is too precious, do not destroy it.
Life is life, fight for it.” 
― Mother Teresa
“This life is what you make it. No matter what, you're going to mess up sometimes, it's a universal truth. But the good part is you get to decide how you're going to mess it up. Girls will be your friends - they'll act like it anyway. But just remember, some come, some go. The ones that stay with you through everything - they're your true best friends. Don't let go of them. Also remember, sisters make the best friends in the world. As for lovers, well, they'll come and go too. And baby, I hate to say it, most of them - actually pretty much all of them are going to break your heart, but you can't give up because if you give up, you'll never find your soulmate. You'll never find that half who makes you whole and that goes for everything. Just because you fail once, doesn't mean you're gonna fail at everything. Keep trying, hold on, and always, always, always believe in yourself, because if you don't, then who will, sweetie? So keep your head high, keep your chin up, and most importantly, keep smiling, because life's a beautiful thing and there's so much to smile about.” 
― Marilyn Monroe
“Sometimes the questions are complicated and the answers are simple.” 
― Dr. Seuss
“Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You.” 
― Dr. Seuss, Happy Birthday to You!
 comedy, life, yourself 17,178 
― Bessie Anderson Stanley, More Heart Throbs Volume Two in Prose and Verse Dear to the American People And by them contributed as a Supplement to the original $10,000 Prize Book HEART THROBS
“To laugh often and love much; to win the respect of intelligent persons and the affection of children; to earn the approbation of honest citizens and endure the betrayal of false friends; to appreciate beauty; to find the best in others; to give of one’s self; to leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition; to have played and laughed with enthusiasm and sung with exultation; to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived—this is to have succeeded.” 
“I'm not afraid of death; I just don't want to be there when it happens.” 
― Woody Allen
“Everything you can imagine is real.” 
― Pablo Picasso
“Who are you to judge the life I live?
I know I'm not perfect
-and I don't live to be-
but before you start pointing fingers...
make sure you hands are clean!” 
― Bob Marley
“Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance, you must keep moving.” 
― Albert Einstein
“Sometimes people are beautiful.
Not in looks.
Not in what they say.
Just in what they are.” 
― Markus Zusak, I Am the Messenger
“Reality continues to ruin my life.” 
― Bill Watterson, The Complete Calvin and Hobbes
“Finish each day and be done with it. You have done what you could. Some blunders and absurdities no doubt crept in; forget them as soon as you can. Tomorrow is a new day. You shall begin it serenely and with too high a spirit to be encumbered with your old nonsense.” 
― Ralph Waldo Emerson
“I'm the one that's got to die when it's time for me to die, so let me live my life the way I want to.” 
― Jimi Hendrix, Jimi Hendrix - Axis Bold as 
“Just when you think it can't get any worse, it can. And just when you think it can't get any better, it can.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, At First Sight
“The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.” 
― Mark Twain
“If you don't know where you're going, any road'll take you there” 
― George Harrison, Cloud Nine
 life, paraphrase-of-lewis-carroll 9,580 
“All God does is watch us and kill us when we get boring. We must never, ever be boring.” 
― Chuck Palahniuk, Invisible Monsters
Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself.” 
― George Bernard Shaw
 inspirational, life, yourself 11,766 

“But better to get hurt by the truth than comforted with a lie.” 
― Khaled Hosseini
 life 11,017 

“The one you love and the one who loves you are never, ever the same person.” 
― Chuck Palahniuk, Invisible Monsters
 life, love 9,416 

“I speak to everyone in the same way, whether he is the garbage man or the president of the university.” 
― Albert Einstein
 life, respect 8,766 

“We are what we pretend to be, so we must be careful about what we pretend to be.” 
― Kurt Vonnegut, Mother Night
 action, attitude, choice, imagination, inspiration, life, pretend 8,697 

“Dumbledore watched her fly away, and as her silvery glow faded he turned back to Snape, and his eyes were full of tears.
"After all this time?"
"Always," said Snape.” 
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
 dumbledore, life, love, snape 8,171 

“Life's hard. It's even harder when you're stupid.” 
― John Wayne
 humor, life 7,981 

“How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world.” 
― Anne Frank
 activism, life, optimism, philosophy, world 7,721 

“I wanted a perfect ending. Now I've learned, the hard way, that some poems don't rhyme, and some stories don't have a clear beginning, middle, and end. Life is about not knowing, having to change, taking the moment and making the best of it, without knowing what's going to happen next.
Delicious Ambiguity.” 
― Gilda Radner
 ambiguity, life, stories, uncertainty, unpredictability 7,353 

“Sometimes I can hear my bones straining under the weight of all the lives I'm not living.” 
― Jonathan Safran Foer, Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close
 life 7,188 

“Death ends a life, not a relationship.” 
― Mitch Albom, Tuesdays With Morrie
 death, life 7,176 

“If the world were merely seductive, that would be easy. If it were merely challenging, that would be no problem. But I arise in the morning torn between a desire to improve the world and a desire to enjoy the world. This makes it hard to plan the day.” 
― E.B. White
 activism, humor, life, pleasure 7,163 

“Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed, citizens can change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has.” 
― Margaret Mead
 activism, change, inspirational, life, philosophy, world 7,133 

“Do not read, as children do, to amuse yourself, or like the ambitious, for the purpose of instruction. No, read in order to live.” 
― Gustave Flaubert
 books, inspirational, life, reading 6,845 

“The saddest aspect of life right now is that science gathers knowledge faster than society gathers wisdom.” 
― Isaac Asimov
 life, science, wisdom 6,810 

“Where there is love there is life.” 
― Mahatma Gandhi
 life, love 6,759 

“We're all human, aren't we? Every human life is worth the same, and worth saving.” 
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
 human, life, value, worth 6,454 

“You cannot find peace by avoiding life.” 
― Virginia Woolf
 life, peace 6,441 

“We have to dare to be ourselves, however frightening or strange that self may prove to be.” 
― May Sarton
 authenticity, life, philosophy, self 6,192 

“There are two basic motivating forces fear and love. When we are afraid, we pull back from life. When we are in love, we open to all that life has to offer with passion, excitement, and acceptance. We need to learn to love ourselves first, in all our glory and our imperfections. If we cannot love ourselves, we cannot fully open to our ability to love others or our potential to create. Evolution and all hopes for a better world rest in the fearlessness and open-hearted vision of people who embrace life.” 
― John Lennon
 beatles, fear, life,
“Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination.”
― Oscar Wilde
 imagination, life, m
“Of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these, 'It might have been.” 
― John Greenleaf Whittier, Maud Muller - Pamphlet
 life, words 5,715 
“Get busy living or get busy dying.” 
― Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption
 life 5,682 
“May you live every day of your life.” 
― Jonathan Swift
 inspirational, life,
“A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable, but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.” 
― George Bernard Shaw
“People aren't either wicked or noble. They're like chef's salads, with good things and bad things chopped and mixed together in a vinaigrette of confusion and conflict.” 
― Lemony Snicket, The Grim Grotto
 life 5,326 
“I don't know the question, but sex is definitely the answer.” 
― Woody Allen
 humor, life, sex 5,1
“Do not let your fire go out, spark by irreplaceable spark in the hopeless swamps of the not-quite, the not-yet, and the not-at-all. Do not let the hero in your soul perish in lonely frustration for the life you deserved and have never been able to reach. The world you desire can be won. It exists.. it is real.. it is possible.. it's yours.” 
― Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged
 inspirational, life 
“Sometimes our light goes out, but is blown again into instant flame by an encounter with another human being.” 
― Albert Schweitzer
 inspirational, life, spiritual, uplifting 4,094 
“Life is to be enjoyed, not endured” 
― Gordon B. Hinckley
Things change. And friends leave. Life doesn't stop for anybody.” 
― Stephen Chbosky, The Perks of Being a Wallflower
 change, life 9,627 

“When someone loves you, the way they say your name is different. You know that your name is safe in their mouth.” 
― Jess C. Scott, The Intern
 desire, emotion, friendship, honesty, imagination, individuality, life, love, passion, reality, relationships, romance, truth, wisdom, wise-words 8,978 

“The only way out of the labyrinth of suffering is to forgive.” 
― John Green, Looking for Alaska
 compassion, life, suffering 8,383 

“To love. To be loved. To never forget your own insignificance. To never get used to the unspeakable violence and the vulgar disparity of life around you. To seek joy in the saddest places. To pursue beauty to its lair. To never simplify what is complicated or complicate what is simple. To respect strength, never power. Above all, to watch. To try and understand. To never look away. And never, never to forget.” 
― Arundhati Roy, The Cost of Living
 life 7,021 

“My experience of life is that it is not divided up into genres; it’s a horrifying, romantic, tragic, comical, science-fiction cowboy detective novel. You know, with a bit of pornography if you're lucky.” 
― Alan Moore
 life 5,837 

“Life will break you. Nobody can protect you from that, and living alone won't either, for solitude will also break you with its yearning. You have to love. You have to feel. It is the reason you are here on earth. You are here to risk your heart. You are here to be swallowed up. And when it happens that you are broken, or betrayed, or left, or hurt, or death brushes near, let yourself sit by an apple tree and listen to the apples falling all around you in heaps, wasting their sweetness. Tell yourself you tasted as many as you could.” 
― Louise Erdrich, The Painted Drum LP
 heartbreak, life, living, love, strength 5,350 

“Life is pain, highness. Anyone who says differently is selling something.” 
― William Goldman, William Goldman Four Screenplays
 life, pain 4,944 

“The most important thing is to enjoy your life—to be happy—it's all that matters.” 
― Audrey Hepburn
 happiness, life 4,878 

“The flower that blooms in adversity is the rarest and most beautiful of all.” 
― Walt Disney Company, Mulan (Pictureback
 inspiration, life 4,605 

“I DON'T CARE!" Harry yelled at them, snatching up a lunascope and throwing it into the fireplace. "I'VE HAD ENOUGH, I'VE SEEN ENOUGH, I WANT OUT, I WANT IT TO END, I DON'T CARE ANYMORE!"
"You do care," said Dumbledore. He had not flinched or made a single move to stop Harry demolishing his office. His expression was calm, almost detached. "You care so much you feel as though you will bleed to death with the pain of it.” 
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
 ache, death, dumbledore, harry-potter, hurt, life, pain 4,491 

“Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.” 
― Ralph Waldo Emerson
 inspirational, life 4,346 

“Religion has convinced people that there's an invisible man ... living in the sky. Who watches everything you do every minute of every day. And the invisible man has a list of ten specific things he doesn't want you to do. And if you do any of these things, he will send you to a special place, of burning and fire and smoke and torture and anguish for you to live forever, and suffer, and suffer, and burn, and scream, until the end of time. But he loves you. He loves you. He loves you and he needs money.” 
― George Carlin
 atheism, humor, life, religion 4,004 

“Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards.” 
― Søren Kierkegaard
 future, life, past, reflection, understanding 3,967 

“All the world is made of faith, and trust, and pixie dust.” 
― J.M. Barrie, Peter Pan
 faith, life, pixie-dust, trust 3,936 

“It is said that your life flashes before your eyes just before you die. That is true, it's called Life.” 
― Terry Pratchett, The Last Continent
 death, humor, life 3,833 

“Tell the truth, or someone will tell it for you.” 
― Stephanie Klein, Straight Up and Dirty A Memoir
 humor, life, memoir, truth 3,817 

“Life's under no obligation to give us what we expect.” 
― Margaret Mitchell
 expectation, hope, life 3,642 

“How many slams in an old screen door? Depends how loud you shut it. How many slices in a bread? Depends how thin you cut it. How much good inside a day? Depends how good you live 'em. How much love inside a friend? Depends how much you give 'em.” 
― Shel Silverstein
“I love to see a young girl go out and grab the world by the lapels. Life's a bitch. You've got to go out and kick ass.” 
― Maya Angelou

“Albus Severus," Harry said quietly, so that nobody but Ginny could hear, and she was tactful enough to pretend to be waving to Rose, who was now on the train, "you were named for two headmasters of Hogwarts. One of them was a Slytherin and he was probably the bravest man I ever knew.” 
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
“Nobody realizes that some people expend tremendous energy merely to be normal.” 
― Albert Camus
“If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain.” 
― Emily Dickinson
“Don't say you don't have enough time. You have exactly the same number of hours per day that were given to Helen Keller, Pasteur, Michaelangelo, Mother Teresa, Leonardo da Vinci, Thomas Jefferson, and Albert Einstein.” 
― H. Jackson Brown Jr.
“If cats looked like frogs we'd realize what nasty, cruel little bastards they are. Style. That's what people remember.” 
― Terry Pratchett, Lords and Ladies
“Don't part with your illusions. When they are gone you may still exist, but you have ceased to live.” 
― Mark Twain
“Books say She did this because. Life says She did this. Books are where things are explained to you; life is where things aren't. I'm not surprised some people prefer books.” 
― Julian Barnes, Flaubert's Parrot
 book
“It's all in the view. That's what I mean about forever, too. For any one of us our forever could end in an hour, or a hundred years from now. You never know for sure, so you'd better make every second count.” 
― Sarah Dessen, The Truth About Forever
 life
“Don't be afraid of death; be afraid of an unlived life. You don't have to live forever, you just have to live.” 
― Natalie Babbitt, Tuck Everlasting
 life
“That it will never come again is what makes life so sweet.” 
― Emily Dickinson
 life
“You realize that our mistrust of the future makes it hard to give up the past.” 
“When I was 5 years old, my mother always told me that happiness was the key to life. When I went to school, they asked me what I wanted to be when I grew up. I wrote down ‘happy’. They told me I didn’t understand the assignment, and I told them they didn’t understand life.” 
― John Lennon
 inspirational, life 4,436 

“If my life is going to mean anything, I have to live it myself.” 
― Rick Riordan, The Lightning Thief
 inspirational, life, meaning 3,536 

“The more I see, the less I know for sure.” 
― John Lennon
 beatles, life, perception, truth 3,176 

“People aren't born good or bad. Maybe they're born with tendencies either way, but its the way you live your life that matters.” 
― Cassandra Clare, City of Glass
 bad, good, life 2,992 

“Life, he realize, was much like a song. In the beginning there is mystery, in the end there is confirmation, but it's in the middle where all the emotion resides to make the whole thing worthwhile.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, The Last Song
 life, love, music, simile, song 2,992 

“Unbeing dead isn't being alive.” 
― E.E. Cummings
 death, life, poetry 2,901 

“Don't you think it's better to be extremely happy for a short while, even if you lose it, than to be just okay for your whole life?” 
― Audrey Niffenegger, The Time Traveler's Wife
 life 2,892 

“Life is for the living.
Death is for the dead.
Let life be like music. 
And death a note unsaid.” 
― Langston Hughes, The Collected Poems
 death, life, music 2,883 

“The most wasted of all days is one without laughter.” 
― E.E. Cummings
“That was the thing. You never got used to it, the idea of someone being gone. Just when you think it's reconciled, accepted, someone points it out to you, and it just hits you all over again, that shocking.” 
― Sarah Dessen, The Truth About Forever
“These woods are lovely, dark and deep,
But I have promises to keep,
And miles to go before I sleep,
And miles to go before I sleep.” 
― Robert Frost, Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening
“Why didn't I learn to treat everything like it was the last time. My greatest regret was how much I believed in the future.” 
― Jonathan Safran Foer, Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close
“Simplicity, patience, compassion.
These three are your greatest treasures.
Simple in actions and thoughts, you return to the source of being.
Patient with both friends and enemies,
you accord with the way things are.
Compassionate toward yourself,
you reconcile all beings in the world.” 
― Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching
“This is your life and its ending one moment at a time.” 
― Chuck Palahniuk, Fight Club
“I've got nothing to do today but smile.” 
― Paul Simon
“Live to the point of tears.” 
― Albert Camus
 life, living 2,624 

“A learning experience is one of those things that says, 'You know that thing you just did? Don't do that.” 
― Douglas Adams, The Salmon of Doubt
 life 2,609 

“If I should ever die, God forbid, let this be my epitaph
THE ONLY PROOF HE NEEDED
FOR THE EXISTENCE OF GOD
WAS MUSIC” 
― Kurt Vonnegut
 blues, god, life, music 2,589 

“No persons are more frequently wrong, than those who will not admit they are wrong.” 
― François de La Rochefoucauld
 cynical, life, truth 2,580 

“Do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?” 
― Abraham Lincoln
 abe, enemies, enemy, friend, friends, friendship, life, lincoln 2,497 

“Once you had put the pieces back together, even though you may look intact, you were never quite the same as you'd been before the fall.” 
― Jodi Picoult
 heartbreak, life 2,487 

“The best index to a person's character is how he treats people who can't do him any good, and how he treats people who can't fight back.” 
― Abigail Van Buren
 character, life, wisdom 2,421 

“We can never judge the lives of others, because each person knows only their own pain and renunciation. It's one thing to feel that you are on the right path, but it's another to think that yours is the only path.” 
― Paulo Coelho
 life 2,360 

“People come, people go – they’ll drift in and out of your life, almost like characters in a favorite book. When you finally close the cover, the characters have told their story and you start up again with another book, complete with new characters and adventures. Then you find yourself focusing on the new ones, not the ones from the past.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, The Rescue
 friends, life 2,344 

“If you ask me what I came to do in this world, I, an artist, will answer you I am here to live out loud.” 
― Émile Zola
 art, calling, life 2,331 
“Life shrinks or s in proportion to one's courage.” 
― Anaïs Nin
 courage, life 2,127 
“The trouble is if you don’t spend your life yourself, other people spend it for you.” 
― Peter Shaffer, Five Finger Exercise A Play
 life, life-lessons 2,110 
“No matter how careful you are, there's going to be the sense you missed something, the collapsed feeling under your skin that you didn't experience it all. There's that fallen heart feeling that you rushed right through the moments where you should've been paying attention.
Well, get used to that feeling. That's how your whole life will feel some day.
This is all practice.” 
― Chuck Palahniuk, Invisible Monsters
 life 2,056 
“I'm killing time while I wait for life to shower me with meaning and happiness.” 
― Bill Watterson
 calvin-and-hobbes, humor, life 1,937 
“The secret of life is honesty and fair dealing. If you can fake that, you've got it made.” 
― Groucho Marx
― Chuck Palahniuk, Survivor

Quotes tagged as "life" (showing 121-150 of 3,000)

“It hurts to let go. Sometimes it seems the harder you try to hold on to something or someone the more it wants to get away. You feel like some kind of criminal for having felt, for having wanted. For having wanted to be wanted. It confuses you, because you think that your feelings were wrong and it makes you feel so small because it's so hard to keep it inside when you let it out and it doesn't coma back. You're left so alone that you can't explain. Damn, there's nothing like that, is there? I've been there and you have too. You're nodding your head.” 
― Henry Rollins, The Portable Henry Rollins
 life, love, relationships 3,481 

“People are afraid of themselves, of their own reality; their feelings most of all. People talk about how great love is, but that’s bullshit. Love hurts. Feelings are disturbing. People are taught that pain is evil and dangerous. How can they deal with love if they’re afraid to feel? Pain is meant to wake us up. People try to hide their pain. But they’re wrong. Pain is something to carry, like a radio. You feel your strength in the experience of pain. It’s all in how you carry it. That’s what matters. Pain is a feeling. Your feelings are a part of you. Your own reality. If you feel ashamed of them, and hide them, you’re letting society destroy your reality. You should stand up for your right to feel your pain.” 
― Jim Morrison
 jim, life, morrison, pain, reality 3,306 

“Monsters are real, and ghosts are real too. They live inside us, and sometimes, they win.” 
― Stephen King
 life 3,043 
“The things you do for yourself are gone when you are gone, but the things you do for others remain as your legacy.” 
― Kalu Ndukwe Kalu
 hope, inspiration, inspirational, life, truth 2,599 

“Life should not be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in a pretty and well preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside in a cloud of smoke, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming "Wow! What a Ride!” 
― Hunter S. Thompson
 life 2,323 

“The saddest people I've ever met in life are the ones who don't care deeply about anything at all. Passion and satisfaction go hand in hand, and without them, any happiness is only temporary, because there's nothing to make it last.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, Dear John
 life, love, passion 2,226 

“I like flaws. I think they make things interesting.” 
― Sarah Dessen, The Truth About Forever
 life, love 2,186 

“One of the advantages of being disorganized is that one is always having surprising discoveries.” 
― A.A. Milne
 discovery, eccentric, life 2,070 

“Maybe everyone can live beyond what they're capable of.” 
― Markus Zusak, I Am the Messenger
 hope, inspirational, life, philosophy 2,021 

“You can have it all. Just not all at once.” 
― Oprah Winfrey
 dreams, life, time 2,019 

“There's nowhere you can be that isn't where you're meant to be...” 
― John Lennon
 beatles, destiny, fate, life 2,013 

“Friendship marks a life even more deeply than love. Love risks degenerating into obsession, friendship is never anything but sharing.” 
― Elie Wiesel
 deep, friendship, life, love, obsession, sharing 1,900 

“A woman has to live her life, or live to repent not having lived it.” 
― D.H. Lawrence, Lady Chatterley's Lover
 life, living, philosophy, women 1,843 

“A good traveler has no fixed plans and is not intent on arriving.” 
― Lao Tzu
 life, travel 1,815 

“Wisdom comes from experience. Experience is often a result of lack of wisdom.” 
― Terry Pratchett
 humor, life 1,791 

“If you can't change your fate, change your attitude.” 
― Amy Tan
 life 1,747 

“Luxury is not a necessity to me, but beautiful and good things are.” 
― Anaïs Nin
“I'll try anything once, twice if I like it, three times to make sure.” 
― Mae West
 humor, life 1,695 
“If there is no love in the world, we will make a new world, and we will give it walls, and we will furnish it with soft, red interiors, from the inside out, and give it a knocker that resonates like a diamond falling to a jeweller's felt so that we should never hear it. Love me, because love doesn't exist, and I have tried everything that does.” 
― Jonathan Safran Foer, Everything Is Illuminated
 life, love 1,679 
“Sometimes I lie awake at night, and I ask, 'Where have I gone wrong'.
Then a voice says to me, 'This is going to take more than one night.” 
― Charles M. Schulz
 charlie-brown, life 1,665 
“Life doesn't imitate art, it imitates bad television.” 
― Woody Allen
 art, humor, life 1,662 
“Tis' better to live your own life imperfectly than to imitate someone else's perfectly.” 
― Elizabeth Gilbert, Eat, Pray, Love
 life 1,656 
“sometimes you don't need a goal in life, you don't need to know the big picture. you just need to know what you're going to do next!” 
― Sophie Kinsella, The Undomestic Goddess
 life, love, shopaholic, sophie 1,649 
“Life is to be lived, not controlled; and humanity is won by continuing to play in face of certain defeat.” 
― Ralph Ellison, Invisible Man
 control, defeat, humanity, life 1,568 
“why are trying so hard to fit in, when you're born to stand out” 
― Oliver James
 individuality, inspirational, life 1,506 
“And I learned what is obvious to a child. That life is simply a collection of little lives, each lived one day at a time. That each day should be spent finding beauty in flowers and poetry and talking to animals. That a day spent with dreaming and sunsets and refreshing breezes cannot be bettered. But most of all, I learned that life is about sitting on benches next to ancient creeks with my hand on her knee and sometimes, on good days, for falling in love.” 
― Nicholas Sparks
 life, simplicity 1,480 
“The difference between fiction and reality? Fiction has to make sense.” 
― Tom Clancy
 life 1,473 
“If you care about something you have to protect it – If you’re lucky enough to find a way of life you love, you have to find the courage to live it.” 
― John Irving, A Prayer for Owen Meany
 life 1,469 
“The trouble with being in the rat race is that even if you win, you're still a rat.” 
― Lily Tomlin
 humor, life, rat-race 1,447 
“Remember: the time you feel lonely is the time you most need to be by yourself. Life's cruelest irony.” 
― Douglas Coupland, Shampoo Planet
: irony, life, loneliness 4,610 

“People say that life is the thing, but I prefer reading.” 
― Logan Pearsall Smith
: life, reading 3,305 

“If you're reading this...
Congratulations, you're alive.
If that's not something to smile about,
then I don't know what is.” 
― Chad Sugg, Monsters Under Your Head
: alive, congratulations, hope, humanity, inspiration, inspirational, inspire, life, poetry, smile, wisdom 3,210 

“أحيانًا يساعدنا الآخرون بأن يكونوا فى حياتنا فحسب” 
― أحمد خالد توفيق
: life 2,368 

“The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him.” 
― G.K. Chesterton
: life, passion, war 2,277 

“It may be unfair, but what happens in a few days, sometimes even a single day, can change the course of a whole lifetime...” 
― Khaled Hosseini, The Kite Runner
: fair, life 2,045 

“Was it hard?" I ask.
Letting go?"

Not as hard as holding on to something that wasn't real.” 
― Lisa Schroeder
: heartbreak, life, love 1,997 

“No one knows for certain how much impact they have on the lives of other people. Oftentimes, we have no clue. Yet we push it just the same.” 
― Jay Asher, Thirteen Reasons Why
: care, impact, life, reach-out, think 1,990 

“When you find your path, you must not be afraid. You need to have sufficient courage to make mistakes. Disappointment, defeat, and despair are the tools God uses to show us the way.” 
― Paulo Coelho, Brida
: disappointment, life, mistakes 1,947 

“They say I'm old-fashioned, and live in the past, but sometimes I think progress progresses too fast!” 
― Dr. Seuss
: life, time 1,945 

“The past has no power over the present moment.” 
― Eckhart Tolle
: education, inspirational, life, philosophy, truth, wisdom 1,866 
“to love life, to love it even
when you have no stomach for it
and everything you've held dear
crumbles like burnt paper in your hands,
your throat filled with the silt of it.
When grief sits with you, its tropical heat
thickening the air, heavy as water
more fit for gills than lungs;
when grief weights you like your own flesh
only more of it, an obesity of grief,
you think, How can a body withstand this?
Then you hold life like a face
between your palms, a plain face,
no charming smile, no violet eyes,
and you say, yes, I will take you
I will love you, again.” 
― Ellen Bass
: acceptance, hope, life, love 1,766 

“The only escape from the miseries of life are music and cats...” 
― Albert Schweitzer
: cats, life, music 1,720 

“What makes big boobs and perkiness so attractive to boys? I mean, really. Two round, mounds of fat and a fake smile. Yeah, winning attributes.” 
― Gena Showalter, Oh My Goth
: funny, life 1,680 

“A purpose of human life, no matter who is controlling it, is to love whoever is around to be loved.” 
― Kurt Vonnegut, The Sirens of Titan
: life, love 1,643 

“We do not grow absolutely, chronologically. We grow sometimes in one dimension, and not in another; unevenly. We grow partially. We are relative. We are mature in one realm, childish in another. The past, present, and future mingle and pull us backward, forward, or fix us in the present. We are made up of layers, cells, constellations.” 
― Anaïs Nin
: growth, life, maturity 1,639 

“Remember, remember, this is now, and now, and now. Live it, feel it, cling to it. I want to become acutely aware of all I’ve taken for granted.” 
― Sylvia Plath
: life 1,618 

“When I look in the mirror, I know I’m looking at someone who isn’t sure she deserves to be loved at all.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, Dear John
: life, love 1,576 

“Your emotions are the slaves to your thoughts, and you are the slave to your emotions.” 
― Elizabeth Gilbert, Eat, Pray, Love: One Woman's Search for Everything Across Italy, India and Indonesia
: emotions, life, spiritual 1,512 

“Living is Easy with Eyes Closed.” 
― John Lennon
: beatles, blindness, ignorance, life 1,480 

“I'd learned that some things are best kept secret.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, Dear John
: life, love, secrets 1,414 

“Maybe this world is another planet’s hell.” 
― Aldous Huxley
: hell, life 1,407 
“You get what anybody gets - you get a lifetime.” 
― Neil Gaiman, The Sandman, Vol. 1: Preludes and Nocturnes
: life 1,391 
“Let me be, was all I wanted. Be what I am, no matter how I am.” 
― Henry Miller, Stand Still Like the Hummingbird
: life 1,385 
“Now and then it's good to pause in our pursuit of happiness and just be happy.” 

― Guillaume Apollinaire
: happiness, life 1,365 
“Some people, they can't just move on, you know, mourn and cry and be done with it. Or at least seem to be. But for me... I don't know. I didn't want to fix it, to forget. It wasn't something that was broken. It's just...something that happened. And like that hole, I'm just finding ways, every day, of working around it. Respecting and remembering and getting on at the same time. ” 
― Sarah Dessen, The Truth About Forever
: life, mourning 1,361 
“At the time, my life just seemed too complete, and maybe we have to break everything to make something better out of ourselves.” 
― Chuck Palahniuk, Fight Club
: life 1,310 
“He allowed himself to be swayed by his conviction that human beings are not born once and for all on the day their mothers give birth to them, but that life obliges them over and over again to give birth to themselves.” 
― Gabriel Garcí­a Márquez, Love in the Time of Cholera
: birth, identity, life, self 1,301 
“In the name of God, stop a moment, cease your work, look around you.” 
― Leo Tolstoy
: inspirational, life, work 1,265 
“Life isn't fair, it's just fairer than death, that's all.” 
― William Goldman, The Princess Bride
“Some infinities are bigger than other infinities.” 
― John Green, The Fault in Our Stars
: infinity, john-green, life, tfios, the-fault-in-our-stars 6,405 

“There will come a time when all of us are dead. All of us. There will come a time when there are no human beings remaining to remember that anyone ever existed or that our species ever did anything. There will be no one left to remember Aristotle or Cleopatra, let alone you. Everything that we did and built and wrote and thought and discovered will be forgotten and all of this will have been for naught. Maybe that time is coming soon and maybe it is millions of years away, but even if we survive the collapse of our sun, we will not survive forever. There was time before organisms experienced consciousness, and there will be time after. And if the inevitability of human oblivion worries you, I encourage you to ignore it. God knows that’s what everyone else does.” 
― John Green, The Fault in Our Stars
: existence, life 3,993 

“Some people have lives; some people have music.” 
― John Green, Will Grayson, Will Grayson
: humor, life, music 2,490 

“Nobody likes being alone that much. I don't go out of my way to make friends, that's all. It just leads to disappointment. ” 
― Haruki Murakami, Norwegian Wood
: disappointment, friends, friendship, life, loneliness 2,071 

“All parents damage their children. It cannot be helped. Youth, like pristine glass, absorbs the prints of its handlers. Some parents smudge, others crack, a few shatter childhoods completely into jagged little pieces, beyond repair.” 
― Mitch Albom, The Five People You Meet in Heaven
: family, inspirational, life, parents 1,671 

“The more you know who you are, and what you want, the less you let things upset you.” 
― Stephanie Perkins, Anna and the French Kiss
: acceptance, life 1,634 

“I believe in being strong when everything seems to be going wrong. I believe that happy girls are the prettiest girls. I believe that tomorrow is another day, and I believe in miracles” 
― Audrey Hepburn
: life 1,514 

“To be, or not to be: that is the question:
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
Must give us pause: there's the respect
That makes calamity of so long life;
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
The insolence of office and the spurns
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
When he himself might his quietus make
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
But that the dread of something after death,
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
And thus the native hue of resolution
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
And enterprises of great pith and moment
With this regard their currents turn awry,
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
Be all my sins remember'd!” 
― William Shakespeare, Hamlet
: death, existence, life 1,487 

“I could die for you. But I couldn't, and wouldn't, live for you.” 
― Ayn Rand, The Fountainhead
: death, die, fountainhead, life, live, mortality 1,480 

“I find out a lot about myself by sleeping. Dreams, they are who I am when I’m too tired to be me.” 
― Jarod Kintz, This Book is Not for Sale
: discovery, dreams, funny, humor, life, sleeping, surrealism 1,469 

“There is only one sin. and that is theft... when you tell a lie, you steal someones right to the truth.” 
― Khaled Hosseini, The Kite Runner
: life 1,468 

“He who has a why to live for can bear almost any how.” 
― Friedrich Nietzsche
: how, life, purpose, questioning, questions, why 1,451 

“I meant," said Ipslore bitterly, "what is there in this world that truly makes living worthwhile?"
Death thought about it.
CATS, he said eventually. CATS ARE NICE.” 
― Terry Pratchett, Sourcery
: cats, death, life 1,418 

“Throw your dreams into space like a kite, and you do not know what it will bring back, a new life, a new friend, a new love, a new country.” 
― Anaïs Nin
: dreams, life, love 1,374 

“It is not the length of life, but the depth.” 
― Ralph Waldo Emerson
: life 1,274 

“Life has become immeasurably better since I have been forced to stop taking it seriously.” 
― Hunter S. Thompson
: life 1,255 

“I think I've discovered the secret of life -- you just hang around until you get used to it.” 
― Charles M. Schulz
: humor, life, wisdom 1,248 

“No sympathy for the devil; keep that in mind. Buy the ticket, take the ride...and if it occasionally gets a little heavier than what you had in mind, well...maybe chalk it off to forced conscious expansion: Tune in, freak out, get beaten.” 
― Hunter S. Thompson, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas
: life 1,183 

“It's not the men in your life that matters, it's the life in your men.” 
― Mae West
: life, men 1,108 

“We could do it, you know."
"What?"
"Leave the district. Run off. Live in the woods. You and I, we could make it.” 
― Suzanne Collins, The Hunger Games
: life, love, survival, ya, young-adult 1,081 

“I'm sorry for my inability to let unimportant things go, for my inability to hold on to the important things.” 
― Jonathan Safran Foer
: life 1,079 

“Life is too short, or too long, for me to allow myself the luxury of living it so badly.” 
― Paulo Coelho
: life 1,062 

“Live simply so others may simply live.” 
― Mother Teresa
: life 1,013 

“To fear love is to fear life, and those who fear life are already 3-parts dead.” 
― Bertrand Russell
“Those who are willing to be vulnerable move among mysteries.” 
― Theodore Roethke, Straw for the Fire: From the Notebooks of Theodore Roethke
: life, poetry 974 
“One always has a better book in one's mind than one can manage to get onto paper.” 
― Michael Cunningham
“We'd start slow, the way we always did, because the run, and the game, could go on for awhile. Maybe even forever.
That was the thing. You just never knew. Forever was so many different things. It was always changing, it was what everything was really all about. It was twenty minutes, or a hundred years, or just this instant, or any instant I wished would last and last. But there was only one truth about forever that really mattered, and that was this: it was happening. Right then, as I ran with Wes into that bright sun, and every moment afterwards. Look, there. Now. Now. Now.” 
― Sarah Dessen, The Truth About Forever
: life, self, thoughts 956 
“When you can live forever what do you live for?” 
― Stephenie Meyer
: eternity, immortal, life, meaning 948 
“My one regret in life is that I am not someone else.” 
― Woody Allen
: life 945 
“One of the few good things about modern times: If you die horribly on television, you will not have died in vain. You will have entertained us.” 
― Kurt Vonnegut
“Better to die fighting for freedom then be a prisoner all the days of your life.” 
― Bob Marley
: freedom, liberty, life, revolution 1,699 

“I walk around the school hallways and look at the people. I look at the teachers and wonder why they're here. If they like their jobs. Or us. And I wonder how smart they were when they were fifteen. Not in a mean way. In a curious way. It's like looking at all the students and wondering who's had their heart broken that day, and how they are able to cope with having three quizzes and a book report due on top of that. Or wondering who did the heart breaking. And wondering why.” 
― Stephen Chbosky, The Perks of Being a Wallflower
: alienation, angst, life, teenager 1,551 

“We are taught you must blame your father, your sisters, your brothers, the school, the teachers - but never blame yourself. It's never your fault. But it's always your fault, because if you wanted to change you're the one who has got to change.” 
― Katharine Hepburn, Me: Stories of My Life
: change, life, self 1,368 

“You live but once; you might as well be amusing.” 
― Coco Chanel
: amusement, carpe-diem, humor, life 1,282 

“make a radical change in your lifestyle and begin to boldly do things which you may previously never have thought of doing, or been too hesitant to attempt. So many people live within unhappy circumstances and yet will not take the initiative to change their situation because they are conditioned to a life of security, conformity, and conservation, all of which may appear to give one peace of mind, but in reality nothing is more damaging to the adventurous spirit within a man than a secure future. The very basic core of a man's living spirit is his passion for adventure. The joy of life comes from our encounters with new experiences, and hence there is no greater joy than to have an endlessly changing horizon, for each day to have a new and different sun. If you want to get more out of life, you must lose your inclination for monotonous security and adopt a helter-skelter style of life that will at first appear to you to be crazy. But once you become accustomed to such a life you will see its full meaning and its incredible beauty.” 
― Jon Krakauer, Into the Wild
: conformity, life, novelty, security 1,280 

“There are times to stay put, and what you want will come to you, and there are times to go out into the world and find such a thing for yourself.” 
― Lemony Snicket, Horseradish: Bitter Truths You Can't Avoid
: life, patience, perseverance, seeking, truth 1,227 

“Lost opportunities, lost possibilities, feelings we can never get back. That's part of what it means to be alive. But inside our heads - at least that's where I imagine it - there's a little room where we store those memories. A room like the stacks in this library. And to understand the workings of our own heart we have to keep on making new reference cards. We have to dust things off every once in awhile, let in fresh air, change the water in the flower vases. In other words, you'll live forever in your own private library.” 
― Haruki Murakami, Kafka on the Shore
: inner-life, life, missed-chances 1,214 

“I can choose either to be a victim of the world or an adventurer in search of treasure. It's all a question of how I view my life.” 
― Paulo Coelho, Eleven Minutes
: life 1,211 

“Death is Peaceful, Life is Harder” 
― Stephenie Meyer, Twilight
: bella, death, life 1,205 

“The real things haven't changed. It is still best to be honest and truthful; to make the most of what we have; to be happy with simple pleasures; and have courage when things go wrong.” 
― Laura Ingalls Wilder
: happy, honesty, life 1,204 

“We cannot change the cards we are dealt, just how we play the hand.” 
― Randy Pausch, The Last Lecture
: advice, last-lecture, life, randy-pausch 1,201 

“If there's a thing I've learned in my life it's to not be afraid of the responsibility that comes with caring for other people. What we do for love: those things endure. Even if the people you do them for don't” 
― Cassandra Clare
: life, life-lesson, love 1,144 

“The biggest adventure you can ever take is to live the life of your dreams.” 
― Oprah Winfrey
: adventure, bravery, inspirational, life 1,072 

“Why do they always teach us that it's easy and evil to do what we want and that we need discipline to restrain ourselves? It's the hardest thing in the world--to do what we want. And it takes the greatest kind of courage. I mean, what we really want.” 
― Ayn Rand
: career, inspiration, life 1,071 

“Dear God," she prayed, "let me be something every minute of every hour of my life. Let me be gay; let me be sad. Let me be cold; let me be warm. Let me be hungry...have too much to eat. Let me be ragged or well dressed. Let me be sincere - be deceitful. Let me be truthful; let me be a liar. Let me be honorable and let me sin. Only let me be something every blessed minute. And when I sleep, let me dream all the time so that not one little piece of living is ever lost.” 
― Betty Smith, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn
: growing-up, inspirational, life 1,050 

“When you consider things like the stars, our affairs don't seem to matter very much, do they?” 
― Virginia Woolf
: life 1,011 

“Scar tissue is stronger than regular tissue. Realize the strength, move on.” 
― Henry Rollins
: inspirational, life 1,008 
“This must be Thursday,' said Arthur to himself, sinking low over his beer. 'I never could get the hang of Thursdays.” 
― Douglas Adams, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
: life, sci-fi 928 
“The aim of life is to live, and to live means to be aware, joyously, drunkenly, serenely, divinely aware.” 
― Henry Miller
: life 914 
“Paradoxically though it may seem, it is none the less true that life imitates art far more than art imitates life.” 
― Oscar Wilde
: art, life, paradox 885 
“Who says life is fair, where is that written?” 
― William Goldman, The Princess Bride
: fair, life, unfair 884 
“Your life is an occasion. Rise to it.” 
― Suzanne Weyn, Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium
: inspiration, life 831 
“Life was meant to be lived, and curiosity must be kept alive. One must never, for whatever reason, turn his back on life.” 
― Eleanor Roosevelt
: inspirational, life 827 
“I can tell if two people are in love by how they hold each other’s hands, and how thick their sanitation gloves are.” 
― Jarod Kintz, This Book is Not for Sale
: absurd, funny, funny-quotes, gloves, holding-hands, humor, humor-quotes, in-love, life, love, relationships, witty-quotes 821 
“Romance novels are birthday cake and life is often peanut butter and jelly. I think everyone should have lots of delicious romance novels lying around for those times when the peanut butter of life gets stuck to the roof of your mouth.” 
― Janet Evanovich
: birthday, cake, life, novels, romance 805 
“I don't want to achieve immortality through my work; I want to achieve immortality through not dying. I don't want to live on in the hearts of my countrymen; I want to live on in my apartment.” 
― Woody Allen, Illustrated Woody Allen Reader

“Earth's crammed with heaven...
But only he who sees, takes off his shoes.” 
― Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Aurora Leigh
: awareness, earth, heaven, life 665 
“I want my kids to have the things in life that I never had when I was growing up. Things like beards and chest hair.” 
― Jarod Kintz, I Want
“It isn't what you have or who you are or where you are or what you are doing that makes you happy or unhappy. It is what you think about it.” 
― Dale Carnegie, How to Win Friends and Influence People
: attitude, contentment, happiness, inspirational, life 3,945 

“please believe that things are good with me, and even when they're not, they will be soon enough. And i will always believe the same about you.” 
― Stephen Chbosky, The Perks of Being a Wallflower
: happiness, inspirational, life 1,715 

“If you end up with a boring miserable life because you listened to your mom, your dad, your teacher, your priest, or some guy on television telling you how to do your shit, then you deserve it.” 
― Frank Zappa
: be-yourself, life, self-determination 1,558 

“When we least expect it, life sets us a challenge to test our courage and willingness to change; at such a moment, there is no point in pretending that nothing has happened or in saying that we are not yet ready. The challenge will not wait. Life does not look back. A week is more than enough time for us to decide whether or not to accept our destiny.” 
― Paulo Coelho, The Devil and Miss Prym
: challenges, change, courage, life 1,529 

“Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one's definition of your life, but define yourself.” 
― Harvey Fierstein
: be-yourself, identity, individuality, inspirational, life, self-determination, self-esteem, self-expression 1,524 

“You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection” 
― Gautama Buddha
: inspiration, life, love, self-acceptance, self-esteem, wisdom 1,405 

“Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough” 
― Oprah Winfrey
: appreciation, contentment, dissatisfaction, life, perception, positivity, thankfulness 1,388 

“The mouth is made for communication, and nothing is more articulate than a kiss.” 
― Jarod Kintz, It Occurred to Me
: articulate, communication, funny, inspirational, kiss, kissing-quotes, life, mouth, romance, strange, true, wisdom 1,357 

“The purpose of life is to live it, to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experience.” 
― Eleanor Roosevelt
: adventure, carpe-diem, enjoy-life, experience, inspirational, life, live-in-the-moment, purpose-of-life 1,329 

“Life is either a daring adventure or nothing at all.” 
― Helen Keller, The Open Door
: carpe-diem, challenges, enjoy-life, life, risk-taking 1,165 

“How nice -- to feel nothing, and still get full credit for being alive.” 
― Kurt Vonnegut, Slaughterhouse-Five
: catatonia, coma, life 1,153 

“If you stay, I'll do whatever you want. I'll quit the band, go with you to New York. But if you need me to go away, I'll do that, too. I was talking to Liz and she said maybe coming back to your old life would be too painful, that maybe it'd be easier for you to erase us. And that would suck, but I'd do it. I can lose you like that if I don't lose you today. I'll let you go. If you stay.” 
― Gayle Forman, If I Stay
: infatuation, life, love, self-sacrifice 1,112 

“Sometimes you have to kind of die inside in order to rise from your own ashes and believe in yourself and love yourself to become a new person.” 
― Gerard Way
: life, rebirth, self-discovery 1,089 

“When you're lost in those woods, it sometimes takes you a while to realize that you are lost. For the longest time, you can convince yourself that you've just wandered off the path, that you'll find your way back to the trailhead any moment now. Then night falls again and again, and you still have no idea where you are, and it's time to admit that you have bewildered yourself so far off the path that you don't even know from which direction the sun rises anymore.” 
― Elizabeth Gilbert
: depression, life 1,049 

“Almost nobody dances sober, unless they happen to be insane.” 
― H.P. Lovecraft
: dance, dancing, life 988 

“One lives in the hope of becoming a memory.” 
― Antonio Porchia
: death, hope, immortality, life, memory, remembrance 968 

“There is no good and evil, there is only power and those too weak to seek it.” 
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
: good-and-evil, inspirational, life 962 

“A pain stabbed my heart, as it did every time I saw a girl I loved who was going the opposite direction in this too-big world.” 
― Jack Kerouac, On the Road
: life, parting 960 

“Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.” 
― Henry David Thoreau, Civil Disobedience and Other Essays
: life, self-actualization, unrealized-potential 924 

“That what I need to survive is not Gale's fire, kindled with rage and hatred. I have plenty of fire myself. What I need is the dandelion in the spring. The bright yellow that means rebirth instead of destruction. The promise that life can go on, no matter how bad our losses. That it can be good again. And only Peeta can give me that.” 
― Suzanne Collins, Mockingjay
: fire, life, loss 922 

“Develop an interest in life as you see it; the people, things, literature, music - the world is so rich, simply throbbing with rich treasures, beautiful souls and interesting people. Forget yourself.” 
― Henry Miller
: life 861 

“Oh the places you'll go! There is fun to be done! There are points to be scored. There are games to be won. And the magical things you can do with that ball will make you the winning-est winner of all.” 
― Dr. Seuss, Oh, The Places You’ll Go!: Yellow Back Book
: anticipation, inspirational, life, self-determination, self-reliance 859 

“What would come, would come...and you would have to meet it, when it did.” 
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
: inspirational, life, que-sera-sera 846 

“When a girl says she wants to be friends with benefits, I always ask if that includes dental insurance.” 
― Jarod Kintz, It Occurred to Me
: dating, dental-insurance, friendship, funny, humor, life, women 799 

“The best of us must sometimes eat our words.” 
― J.K. Rowling
: being-wrong, life 797 

“You were given life; it is your duty (and also your entitlement as a human being) to find something beautiful within life, no matter how slight.” 
― Elizabeth Gilbert
: beauty, enjoy-life, life 797 

“Our lives are not as limited as we think they are; the world is a wonderfully weird place; consensual reality is significantly flawed; no institution can be trusted, but love does work; all things are possible; and we all could be happy and fulfilled if we only had the guts to be truly free and the wisdom to shrink our egos and quit taking ourselves so damn seriously.” 
― Tom Robbins
: life 768 

“In all of living, have much fun and laughter. Life is to be enjoyed, not just endured.” 
― Gordon B. Hinckley
: enjoy-life, life, religion 721 

“I don't get it,' Caroline said, bemused. 'She's the only one with wings. Why is that?'
There were so many questions in life. You couldn't ever have all the answers. But I knew this one.
It's so she can fly,' I said. Then I started to run.” 
― Sarah Dessen, The Truth About Forever
: answers, life, questions, running 658 

“We should count time by heart-throbs. He most lives,
Who thinks most, feels noblest, acts the best.” 
― Philip James Bailey, Festus: A Poem
: life, nobility
The truth is, unless you let go, unless you forgive yourself, unless you forgive the situation, unless you realize that the situation is over, you cannot move forward.” 
― Steve Maraboli, Unapologetically You: Reflections on Life and the Human Experience
: forgiveness, inspirational, letting-go, life, motivational, moving-forward, truth 2,058 

“Suffering has been stronger than all other teaching, and has taught me to understand what your heart used to be. I have been bent and broken, but - I hope - into a better shape.” 
― Charles Dickens, Great Expectations
: growth, heart, life, suffering 1,350 

“There is a saying in Tibetan, 'Tragedy should be utilized as a source of strength.'
No matter what sort of difficulties, how painful experience is, if we lose our hope, that's our real disaster.” 
― Dalai Lama XIV
: hope, life, pain, strength, tragedy 1,293 
― Lauren Myracle
: funny, home, life 1,112 
“Nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood. Now is the time to understand more, so that we may fear less.” 
― Marie Curie
: fear, life, science, understanding 1,019 

“You can search throughout the entire universe for someone who is more deserving of your love and affection than you are yourself, and that person is not to be found anywhere. You, yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection.” 
― Gautama Buddha
: inspiration, life, love, self-acceptance, self-esteem, wisdom 1,010 

“It's better to burn out than to fade away.” 
― Neil Young
: death, end, life 1,008 

“Accept what life offers you and try to drink from every cup. All wines should be tasted; some should only be sipped, but with others, drink the whole bottle.” 
― Paulo Coelho, Brida
: advice, experience, life, variety, wine 972 

“I walked over to the hill where we used to go and sled. There were a lot of little kids there. I watched them flying. Doing jumps and having races. And I thought that all those little kids are going to grow up someday. And all of those little kids are going to do the things that we do. And they will all kiss someone someday. But for now, sledding is enough. I think it would be great if sledding were always enough, but it isn't.” 
― Stephen Chbosky, The Perks of Being a Wallflower
: growing-up, life 937 

“Don't be afraid of enemies who attack you. Be afraid of the friends who flatter you.” 
― Dale Carnegie, How to Win Friends and Influence People
: dishonesty, inspirational, life, people 928 

“Our true friends are those who are with us when the good things happen. They cheer us on and are pleased by our triumphs. False friends only appear at difficult times, with their sad, supportive faces, when, in fact, our suffering is serving to console them for their miserable lives.” 
― Paulo Coelho, The Zahir
: friends, life 901 

“Parents were the only ones obligated to love you; from the rest of the world you had to earn it.” 
― Ann Brashares, Forever in Blue: The Fourth Summer of the Sisterhood
: agape, family, life, love, unconditional-love 884 

“People are like stained-glass windows. They sparkle and shine when the sun is out, but when the darkness sets in, their true beauty is revealed only if there is a light from within.” 
― Elisabeth Kübler-Ross
: analogy, inner-beauty, life 854 

“eventually, everything goes away.” 
― Elizabeth Gilbert, Eat, Pray, Love
: impermanence, life, loss 792 

“Often, it’s not about becoming a new person, but becoming the person you were meant to be, and already are, but don’t know how to be.” 
― Heath L. Buckmaster, Box of Hair: A Fairy Tale
: education, growth, life, self-acceptance, self-realization 774 

“Life is worth living as long as there's a laugh in it.” 
― L.M. Montgomery, Anne of Green Gables
: humor, laughter, life 769 

“When the going gets weird, the weird turn professional.” 
― Hunter S. Thompson, Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72
: life 738 

“To perceive is to suffer.” 
― Aristotle
: empathy, life, suffer, understanding 727 

“Don't be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better.” 
― Ralph Waldo Emerson, Journals of Ralph Waldo Emerson, with Annotations - 1841-1844
: life, risk-taking, timidity 722 

“When two people are under the influence of the most violent, most insane, most delusive, and most transient of passions, they are required to swear that they will remain in that excited, abnormal, and exhausting condition continuously until death do them part.” 
― George Bernard Shaw, Getting Married
: life, marriage 718 
“Our lives are defined by opportunities, even the ones we miss.” 
― Eric Roth, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button screenplay
: life, missed-chances, opportunities 714 

“I feel that life is divided into the horrible and the miserable. That's the two categories. The horrible are like, I don't know, terminal cases, you know, and blind people, crippled. I don't know how they get through life. It's amazing to me. And the miserable is everyone else. So you should be thankful that you're miserable, because that's very lucky, to be miserable.” 
― Woody Allen, Annie Hall
: humour, life 704 

“The whole of life is just like watching a film. Only it's as though you always get in ten minutes after the big picture has started, and no-one will tell you the plot, so you have to work it out all yourself from the clues.” 
― Terry Pratchett, Moving Pictures
: humor, life, movies 700 

“The future is something which everyone reaches at the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever he does, whoever he is.” 
― C.S. Lewis
: life, time 683 

“You can't just plan a moment when things get back on track, just as you can't plan the moment you lose your way in the first place.” 
― Sarah Dessen, Someone Like You
: life 667 

“Writers fish for the right words like fishermen fish for, um, whatever those aquatic creatures with fins and gills are called.  ” 
― Jarod Kintz, This is the best book I've ever written, and it still sucks
: absurd, aquatic, bizarre, creatures, fins, fish, fisherman, fishing, food, funny, gills, humor, life, name, ocean, quotes-about-writing, surreal, vocabulary, write, writer-quote, writers, writers-quotes, writing 650 

“Most of the basic material a writer works with is acquired before the age of fifteen.” 
― Willa Cather
: life, storytelling, writing 647 

“We’d met at a carefree time, a moment full of promise, in its place now were the harsh lessons of the real world.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, Dear John
: life, love 
“Very occasionally, if you pay really close attention, life doesn't suck.” 
― Joss Whedon
“Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don't resist them; that only creates sorrow. Let reality be reality. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like.” 
― Lao Tzu
: acceptance, change, life, reality, serenity 1,500 

“When things break, it's not the actual breaking that prevents them from getting back together again. It's because a little piece gets lost - the two remaining ends couldn't fit together even if they wanted to. The whole shape has changed.” 
― John Green, Will Grayson, Will Grayson
: inspirational, life 1,335 

“For me, trees have always been the most penetrating preachers. I revere them when they live in tribes and families, in forests and groves. And even more I revere them when they stand alone. They are like lonely persons. Not like hermits who have stolen away out of some weakness, but like great, solitary men, like Beethoven and Nietzsche. In their highest boughs the world rustles, their roots rest in infinity; but they do not lose themselves there, they struggle with all the force of their lives for one thing only: to fulfil themselves according to their own laws, to build up their own form, to represent themselves. Nothing is holier, nothing is more exemplary than a beautiful, strong tree. When a tree is cut down and reveals its naked death-wound to the sun, one can read its whole history in the luminous, inscribed disk of its trunk: in the rings of its years, its scars, all the struggle, all the suffering, all the sickness, all the happiness and prosperity stand truly written, the narrow years and the luxurious years, the attacks withstood, the storms endured. And every young farmboy knows that the hardest and noblest wood has the narrowest rings, that high on the mountains and in continuing danger the most indestructible, the strongest, the ideal trees grow.

Trees are sanctuaries. Whoever knows how to speak to them, whoever knows how to listen to them, can learn the truth. They do not preach learning and precepts, they preach, undeterred by particulars, the ancient law of life.

A tree says: A kernel is hidden in me, a spark, a thought, I am life from eternal life. The attempt and the risk that the eternal mother took with me is unique, unique the form and veins of my skin, unique the smallest play of leaves in my branches and the smallest scar on my bark. I was made to form and reveal the eternal in my smallest special detail.

A tree says: My strength is trust. I know nothing about my fathers, I know nothing about the thousand children that every year spring out of me. I live out the secret of my seed to the very end, and I care for nothing else. I trust that God is in me. I trust that my labor is holy. Out of this trust I live.

When we are stricken and cannot bear our lives any longer, then a tree has something to say to us: Be still! Be still! Look at me! Life is not easy, life is not difficult. Those are childish thoughts. Let God speak within you, and your thoughts will grow silent. You are anxious because your path leads away from mother and home. But every step and every day lead you back again to the mother. Home is neither here nor there. Home is within you, or home is nowhere at all.

A longing to wander tears my heart when I hear trees rustling in the wind at evening. If one listens to them silently for a long time, this longing reveals its kernel, its meaning. It is not so much a matter of escaping from one's suffering, though it may seem to be so. It is a longing for home, for a memory of the mother, for new metaphors for life. It leads home. Every path leads homeward, every step is birth, every step is death, every grave is mother.

So the tree rustles in the evening, when we stand uneasy before our own childish thoughts: Trees have long thoughts, long-breathing and restful, just as they have longer lives than ours. They are wiser than we are, as long as we do not listen to them. But when we have learned how to listen to trees, then the brevity and the quickness and the childlike hastiness of our thoughts achieve an incomparable joy. Whoever has learned how to listen to trees no longer wants to be a tree. He wants to be nothing except what he is. That is home. That is happiness.” 
― Hermann Hesse, Bäume. Betrachtungen und Gedichte
: eternity, fear, forests, history, holiness, home, life, longing, poet, roots, self-discovery, spirituality, strength, trees, trust 1,333 

“I want to be in a relationship where you telling me you love me is just a ceremonious validation of what you already show me.” 
― Steve Maraboli, Life, the Truth, and Being Free
: action, being-loved, inspirational, life, love, relationships 1,280 

“Time was passing like a hand waving from a train I wanted to be on. 
I hope you never have to think about anything as much as I think about you.” 
― Jonathan Safran Foer
: desperate, life, losing, love, nostalgia, pain, regret, solitude 1,274 

“Even death has a heart.” 
― Markus Zusak, The Book Thief
: death, life 1,144 

“Even 
After 
All this time
The Sun never says to the Earth,

"You owe me."

Look
What happens
With a love like that,
It lights the whole sky.” 
― حافظ
: life, love, sky, sun 1,138 

“Anybody can look at a pretty girl and see a pretty girl. An artist can look at a pretty girl and see the old woman she will become. A better artist can look at an old woman and see the pretty girl that she used to be. But a great artist-a master-and that is what Auguste Rodin was-can look at an old woman, protray her exactly as she is...and force the viewer to see the pretty girl she used to be...and more than that, he can make anyone with the sensitivity of an armadillo, or even you, see that this lovely young girl is still alive, not old and ugly at all, but simply prisoned inside her ruined body. He can make you feel the quiet, endless tragedy that there was never a girl born who ever grew older than eighteen in her heart...no matter what the merciless hours have done to her. Look at her, Ben. Growing old doesn't matter to you and me; we were never meant to be admired-but it does to them.” 
― Robert A. Heinlein
: art, life, old, wisdom, youth 1,011 

“Stories you read when you're the right age never quite leave you. You may forget who wrote them or what the story was called. Sometimes you'll forget precisely what happened, but if a story touches you it will stay with you, haunting the places in your mind that you rarely ever visit.”
― Neil Gaiman, M is for Magic
: haunting, life, mind, stories, youth 995 

“I sit beside the fire and think 
Of all that I have seen
Of meadow flowers and butterflies
In summers that have been

Of yellow leaves and gossamer
In autumns that there were
With morning mist and silver sun
And wind upon my hair

I sit beside the fire and think
Of how the world will be
When winter comes without a spring 
That I shall ever see

For still there are so many things
That I have never seen
In every wood in every spring
There is a different green

I sit beside the fire and think
Of people long ago
And people that will see a world
That I shall never know

But all the while I sit and think
Of times there were before
I listen for returning feet 
And voices at the door” 
― J.R.R. Tolkien
: life, time 946 

“To acquire the habit of reading is to construct for yourself a refuge from almost all the miseries of life.” 
― W. Somerset Maugham, Books and You
: books, life, reading, refuge 913 

“My body is my journal, and my tattoos are my story.” 
― Johnny Depp
: life, tattoos 902 

“Death is not the opposite of life, but a part of it.” 
― Haruki Murakami, Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman: 24 Stories
: death, life 900 

“Never complain, never explain. Resist the temptation to defend yourself or make excuses.” 
― Brian Tracy
: be-yourself, life, remaining-silent, reticence, wisdom 892 

“Life is pleasant. Death is peaceful. It's the transition that's troublesome.”
― Isaac Asimov
: comment, death, death-and-dying, funny, life, transition 849 

“Do I dare 
Disturb the universe? 
In a minute there is time 
For decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse.” 
― T.S. Eliot
: life, poetry 833 

“How much I missed, simply because I was afraid of missing it.” 
― Paulo Coelho, Brida
: fear, life, opportunity 831 

“Don't leave a piece of jewelry at his house so you can go back and get it later; he may be with his real girlfriend.” 
― Amy Sedaris, I Like You: Hospitality Under the Influence
: advice, affairs, dating, jewelry, life, love, men, relationships, romance, women 796 

“Life is not a problem to be solved, but a reality to be experienced.” 
― Søren Kierkegaard
: life, reality 785 

“I know it seems hard sometimes but remember one thing. Through every dark night, there's a bright day after that. So no matter how hard it get, stick your chest out, keep ya head up.... and handle it.” 
― Tupac Shakur
: bright, hard, life 778 

“I'm the most terrific liar you ever saw in your life. It's awful. If I'm on my way to the store to buy a magazine, even, and somebody asks me where I'm going, I'm liable to say I'm going to the opera. It's terrible.” 
― J.D. Salinger, The Catcher in the Rye
: holden-caulfield, life, lying 729 

“The only way to survive eternity is to be able to appreciate each moment.” 
― Lauren Kate, Fallen
: life, live-in-the-moment 728 

“My father had taught me to be nice first, because you can always be mean later, but once you've been mean to someone, they won't believe the nice anymore. So be nice, be nice, until it's time to stop being nice, then destroy them.” 
― Laurell K. Hamilton, A Stroke of Midnight
: inspirational, life, meredith-gentry, nice 715 

“Life will not break your heart. It'll crush it.” 
― Henry Rollins
: heart, life 698 

“Alone we can do so little; together we can do so much” 
― Helen Keller
: collaboration, life, teamwork 686 

“I don't think that there are any limits to how excellent we could make life seem.” 
― Jonathan Safran Foer, Everything is Illuminated
: happiness, life 656 

“One of my main regrets in life is giving considerable thought to inconsiderate people.” 
― Jarod Kintz, This Book is Not for Sale
: considerate, inconsiderate, inconsiderate-people, life, people, regret, regrets, relationships 578 

“Human beings are not born once and for all on the day their mothers give birth to them, but ... life obliges them over and over again to give birth to themselves.” 
― Gabriel Garcí­a Márquez
: life, self-actualization, self-image 562 

“There are many things worth living for, a few things worth dying for, and nothing worth killing for.” 
― Tom Robbins, Even Cowgirls Get the Blues
: killing, life 561 
“You need to find a way to live your life, that it doesn't make a mockery of your values.” 
― Bill Ayers
To choose doubt as a philosophy of life is akin to choosing immobility as a means of transportation.” 
― Yann Martel, Life of Pi
: life 2,224 

“If people refuse to look at you in a new light and they can only see you for what you were, only see you for the mistakes you've made, if they don't realize that you are not your mistakes, then they have to go.” 
― Steve Maraboli, Life, the Truth, and Being Free
: change, growth, inspirational, letting-go, life, mistakes 1,566 

“The right thing and the easy thing are never the same.” 
― Kami Garcia, Beautiful Creatures
: beautiful-creatures, life 1,308 

“Laugh, even when you feel too sick or too worn out or tired. 
Smile, even when you're trying not to cry and the tears are blurring your vision. 
Sing, even when people stare at you and tell you your voice is crappy. 
Trust, even when your heart begs you not to. 
Twirl, even when your mind makes no sense of what you see. 
Frolick, even when you are made fun of. Kiss, even when others are watching. Sleep, even when you're afraid of what the dreams might bring. 
Run, even when it feels like you can't run any more.
And, always, remember, even when the memories pinch your heart. Because the pain of all your experience is what makes you the person you are now. And without your experience---you are an empty page, a blank notebook, a missing lyric. What makes you brave is your willingness to live through your terrible life and hold your head up high the next day. So don't live life in fear. Because you are stronger now, after all the crap has happened, than you ever were back before it started.” 
― Alysha Speer
: afraid, brave, cry, frolick, heart, kiss, laugh, life, live, remember, run, sing, sleep, smile, trust, twirl 1,290 

“Dwell on the beauty of life. Watch the stars, and see yourself running with them.” 
― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
: appreciation, awe, beauty, life, optimism, positivity, sense-of-wonder, stars 1,103 

“How people treat you is their karma; how you react is yours.” 
― Wayne W. Dyer
: karma, life 922 

“Ester asked why people are sad.
"That’s simple," says the old man. "They are the prisoners of their personal history. Everyone believes that the main aim in life is to follow a plan. They never ask if that plan is theirs or if it was created by another person. They accumulate experiences, memories, things, other people's ideas, and it is more than they can possibly cope with. And that is why they forget their dreams.” 
― Paulo Coelho, The Zahir
: dreams, future, happiness, life, plans, sadness 834 

“و شعرت بأن فى روحى ثقباً .. ثقباً يتسع .. و يمتص كل ذكرياتى و حياتى و أحلامى ..
وددت لو كان شخص أعرفه بقربى .. أحكى له كل شئ .. أقص عليه حكاية الثقب” 
― أحمد خالد توفيق
: life 823 

“Tiger got to hunt, bird got to fly;
Man got to sit and wonder 'why, why, why?'
Tiger got to sleep, bird got to land;
Man got to tell himself he understand.” 
― Kurt Vonnegut, Cat's Cradle
: life, nature, philosophy 800 

“What, if some day or night a demon were to steal after you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you: 'This life as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times more' ... Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon who spoke thus? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment when you would have answered him: 'You are a god and never have I heard anything more divine.” 
― Friedrich Nietzsche, The Gay Science: with a Prelude in Rhymes and an Appendix of Songs
: demons, happiness, judgement, kronofobi, life, reincarnation, sadness 785 

“Man is condemned to be free; because once thrown into the world, he is responsible for everything he does. 
It is up to you to give [life] a meaning.” 
― Jean-Paul Sartre
: freedom, life, personal-responsibility 731 

“Then, one stupid person, no different from any other stupid person, wanders into your stupid life...you give them a piece of you. They don't ask for it. They do something dumb one day like kiss you or smile at you, and then your life isn't your own anymore.” 
― Neil Gaiman, The Sandman, Vol. 9: The Kindly Ones
: independence, interdependence, life, love 687 

“Life is a series of pulls back and forth... A tension of opposites, like a pull on a rubber band. Most of us live somewhere in the middle. A wrestling match...Which side win? Love wins. Love always wins” 
― Mitch Albom, Tuesdays With Morrie
: life, love 681 

“You never knew the last time you were seeing someone. You didn't know when the last argument happened, or the last time you had sex, or the last time you looked into their eyes and thanked God they were in your life.
After they were gone?
That was all you thought about.
Day and night.” 
― J.R. Ward, Lover Mine
: life, loss, love, shit-happens, suck-it-up 660 

“No! Try not. Do, or do not. There is no try.” 
― George Lucas, Star Wars Trilogy
: humor, inspirational, jedi, life, philosophy, star-wars 657 

“Though the road's been rocky it sure feels good to me.” 
― Bob Marley
: inspirational, journey, life 645 

“Do not wait for the last judgment. It comes every day.” 
― Albert Camus
: judgement, life, religion 643 

“But I have learned that you make your own happiness, that part of going for what you want means losing something else. And when the stakes are high, the losses can be that much greater.” 
― Emily Giffin, Something Borrowed
: life 620 

“Breathe. Let go. And remind yourself that this very moment is the only one you know you have for sure. ” 
― Oprah Winfrey
: life 598 

“There's gon' be some stuff you gon' see
that's gon' make it hard to smile in the future.
But through whatever you see,
through all the rain and the pain,
you gotta keep your sense of humor.
You gotta be able to smile through all this bullshit.
Remember that.” 
― Tupac Shakur
: life 578 

“This isn't life in the fast lane, it's life in the oncoming traffic.” 
― Terry Pratchett
: humor, life 570 

“But if everything was always smooth and perfect, you'd get too used to that, you know? You have to have a little bit of disorganization now and then. Otherwise, you'll never really enjoy it when things go right.” 
― Sarah Dessen, The Truth About Forever
: adversity, contrast, life 569 

“The more you praise and celebrate your life, the more there is in life to celebrate.” 
― Oprah Winfrey
: happiness, life 560 

“When life gives you lemons, chunk it right back.” 
― Bill Watterson
: calvin-and-hobbes, funny, humor, lemons, life 551 

“As is a tale, so is life: not how long it is, but how good it is, is what matters.
I wish you all very good lives.” 
― J.K. Rowling
: harvard-commencement-speech, life 547 

“In a time of destruction, create something.” 
― Maxine Hong Kingston
: creation, destruction, hope, life 523 

“What does it mean to be the best? It means you have to be better than the number two guy. But what gratification is there in that? He's a loser—that’s why he's number two.” 
― Jarod Kintz, This Book is Not for Sale
: absurd, best, bizarre, competing, competition, competitor, funny, funny-quote, funny-quotes, gratification, gratifying, humor, improvement, inspirational, life, lose, loser, losing, satisfying, silly, truism, truth, win, winner, winning 523 

“Never allow a person to tell you no who doesn't have the power to say 
yes.” 
― Eleanor Roosevelt
: life 519 
“The more I live, the more I learn. The more I learn, the more I realize, the less I know.” 
― Michel Legrand
: apothegm, education, life, lifelong-learning, lyrics 518 

“I told her I'd wait forever for her, but that was before I found somebody else who'd give me a ride home.” 
― Jarod Kintz, This Book is Not for Sale
“Don’t try to make life a mathematics problem with yourself in the center and everything coming out equal. When you’re good, bad things can still happen. And if you’re bad, you can still be lucky.” 
― Barbara Kingsolver, The Poisonwood Bible
: life, unfairness 2,788 

“If a man will begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts; but if he will be content to begin with doubts, he shall end in certainties.” 
― Francis Bacon, The Advancement Of Learning
: advice, certainty, life 1,802 

“Dare to Be

When a new day begins, dare to smile gratefully.

When there is darkness, dare to be the first to shine a light.

When there is injustice, dare to be the first to condemn it.

When something seems difficult, dare to do it anyway.

When life seems to beat you down, dare to fight back.

When there seems to be no hope, dare to find some.

When you’re feeling tired, dare to keep going.

When times are tough, dare to be tougher.

When love hurts you, dare to love again.

When someone is hurting, dare to help them heal.

When another is lost, dare to help them find the way.

When a friend falls, dare to be the first to extend a hand.

When you cross paths with another, dare to make them smile.

When you feel great, dare to help someone else feel great too.

When the day has ended, dare to feel as you’ve done your best.

Dare to be the best you can –

At all times, Dare to be!” 
― Steve Maraboli, Life, the Truth, and Being Free
: compassion, dare-to-be, gratitude, inspirational, life, motivational, seize-the-day, smile, success 1,778 

“If you want to forget something or someone, never hate it, or never hate him/her. Everything and everyone that you hate is engraved upon your heart; if you want to let go of something, if you want to forget, you cannot hate.” 
― C. JoyBell C.
: forgetting, hate, inspirational, inspirational-attitude, inspirational-life, inspirational-quotes, letting-go, life, life-and-living, living, strength 1,756 

“I just need to know that someone out there listens and understands and doesn't try to sleep with someone even if they could have. I need to know these people exist.” 
― Stephen Chbosky, The Perks of Being a Wallflower
: life 1,312 

“It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.” 
― Confucius
: education, inspirational, life, perseverance 938 

“Do you not see how necessary a world of pains and troubles is to school an intelligence and make it a soul?” 
― John Keats, Letters of John Keats
: art, depression, growth, life, pain, suffering, wisdom 903 

“Simplicity is the keynote of all true elegance.” 
― Coco Chanel
: fashion, greatness, life 873 

“Every man's life ends the same way. It is only the details of how he lived and how he died that distinguish one man from another.” 
― Ernest Hemingway
: death, life 784 

“Do not take life too seriously. You will never get out of it alive.” 
― Elbert Hubbard
: humour, life 737 

“When a woman becomes her own best friend life is easier.” 
― Diane Von Furstenberg
: friendship, life, self-love, women 736 

“Life's as kind as you let it be.” 
― Charles Bukowski, Hot Water Music
: life, truth 692 

“My life didn't please me, so I created my life.” 
― Coco Chanel
: control, life 681 

“Remember that everyone you meet is afraid of something, loves something and has lost something.” 
― H. Jackson Brown Jr.
: inspirational, life 628 

“Choosing a path meant having to miss out on others. She had a whole life to live, and she was always thinking that, in the future, she might regret the choices she made now. “I’m afraid of committing myself,” she thought to herself. She wanted to follow all possible paths and so ended up following none. Even in that most important area of her life, love, she had failed to commit herself. After her first romantic disappointment, she had never again given herself entirely. She feared pan, loss, and separation. These things were inevitable on the path to love, and the only way of avoiding them was by deciding not to take that path at all. In order not to suffer, you had to renounce love. It was like putting out your own eyes not to see the bad things in life.” 
― Paulo Coelho, Brida
: choice, life 604 

“A man with outward courage dares to die; a man with inner courage dares to live.” 
― Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching
: courage, death, inspirational, life, moral-courage, real-life 595 

“Life is a journey. Time is a river. The door is ajar” 
― Jim Butcher, Dead Beat
: humor, life, metaphor, zen 567 

“I don't understand people who say they need more "Me Time." What other time is there? Do these people spend part of their day in someone else's body?” 
― Jarod Kintz, This Book is Not for Sale
: funny, life, me-time, time, truth, wisdom 549 

“Art is the proper task of life. ” 
― Friedrich Nietzsche
: art, inspirational, life 520 

“Life gives us choices. You either grab on with both hands and just go for it, or you sit on the sidelines.” 
― Christine Feehan, Night Game
: inspiration, life 520 

“There are, it has been said, two types of people in the world. There are those who, when presented with a glass that is exactly half full, say: this glass is half full. And then there are those who say: this glass is half empty. 
The world belongs, however, to those who can look at the glass and say: What's up with this glass? Excuse me? Excuse me? This is my glass? I don't think so. My glass was full! And it was a bigger glass! Who's been pinching my beer?
And at the other end of the bar the world is full of the other type of person, who has a broken glass, or a glass that has been carelessly knocked over (usually by one of the people calling for a larger glass) or who had no glass at all, because he was at the back of the crowd and had failed to catch the barman's eye. ” 
― Terry Pratchett, The Truth
: life 504 
“Do your own thing on your own terms and get what you came here for” 
― Oliver James
: be-yourself, inspirational, life, self-actualization, self-expression 485 

“Independence is my happiness, and I view things as they are, without regard to place or person; my country is the world, and my religion is to do good.” 
― Thomas Paine, Rights of Man
: brotherhood-of-man, doing-good, god, life 483 
“It’s true, I can’t make you love me. But I can refuse to let you out of your cage.” 
“The truth is, unless you let go, unless you forgive yourself, unless you forgive the situation, unless you realize that the situation is over, you cannot move forward.” 
“Suffering has been stronger than all other teaching, and has taught me to understand what your heart used to be. I have been bent and broken, but - I hope - into a better shape.” 
― Charles Dickens, Great Expectations
“There is a saying in Tibetan, 'Tragedy should be utilized as a source of strength.'
No matter what sort of difficulties, how painful experience is, if we lose our hope, that's our real disaster.” 
“Even death has a heart.” 
“I live in my own little world. But its ok, they know me here.” 
“Nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood. Now is the time to understand more, so that we may fear less.” 
“You can search throughout the entire universe for someone who is more deserving of your love and affection than you are yourself, and that person is not to be found anywhere. You, yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection.” 
“It's better to burn out than to fade away.” 
“I walked over to the hill where we used to go and sled. There were a lot of little kids there. I watched them flying. Doing jumps and having races. And I thought that all those little kids are going to grow up someday. And all of those little kids are going to do the things that we do. And they will all kiss someone someday. But for now, sledding is enough. I think it would be great if sledding were always enough, but it isn't.” 
“Don't be afraid of enemies who attack you. Be afraid of the friends who flatter you.” 
“Our true friends are those who are with us when the good things happen. They cheer us on and are pleased by our triumphs. False friends only appear at difficult times, with their sad, supportive faces, when, in fact, our suffering is serving to console them for their miserable lives.” 
“Parents were the only ones obligated to love you; from the rest of the world you had to earn it.” 
“People are like stained-glass windows. They sparkle and shine when the sun is out, but when the darkness sets in, their true beauty is revealed only if there is a light from within.” 
“eventually, everything goes away.” 
“Often, it’s not about becoming a new person, but becoming the person you were meant to be, and already are, but don’t know how to be.” 
― Heath L. Buckmaster, Box of Hair: A Fairy Tale
“Life is worth living as long as there's a laugh in it.” 
― L.M. Montgomery, Anne of Green Gables
“When the going gets weird, the weird turn professional.” 
― Hunter S. Thompson, Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72
“To perceive is to suffer.” 
― Aristotle
“Don't be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better.” 
― Ralph Waldo Emerson, Journals of Ralph Waldo Emerson, with Annotations - 1841-1844
“When two people are under the influence of the most violent, most insane, most delusive, and most transient of passions, they are required to swear that they will remain in that excited, abnormal, and exhausting condition continuously until death do them part.” 
― George Bernard Shaw, Getting Married
tags: life, marriage 718 people liked it like
“Our lives are defined by opportunities, even the ones we miss.” 
“I feel that life is divided into the horrible and the miserable. That's the two categories. The horrible are like, I don't know, terminal cases, you know, and blind people, crippled. I don't know how they get through life. It's amazing to me. And the miserable is everyone else. So you should be thankful that you're miserable, because that's very lucky, to be miserable.” 
― Woody Allen, Annie Hall
“The whole of life is just like watching a film. Only it's as though you always get in ten minutes after the big picture has started, and no-one will tell you the plot, so you have to work it out all yourself from the clues.” 
― Terry Pratchett, Moving Pictures
“The future is something which everyone reaches at the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever he does, whoever he is.” 
― C.S. Lewis
“You can't just plan a moment when things get back on track, just as you can't plan the moment you lose your way in the first place.” 
― Sarah Dessen, Someone Like You
“Writers fish for the right words like fishermen fish for, um, whatever those aquatic creatures with fins and gills are called.  ― Jarod Kintz, This is the best book I've ever written, and it still sucks
“Most of the basic material a writer works with is acquired before the age of fifteen.” 
― Willa Cather
“We’d met at a carefree time, a moment full of promise, in its place now were the harsh lessons of the real world.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, Dear John
“Very occasionally, if you pay really close attention, life doesn't suck.” 
“The only position that leaves me with no cognitive dissonance is atheism. It is not a creed. Death is certain, replacing both the siren-song of Paradise and the dread of Hell. Life on this earth, with all its mystery and beauty and pain, is then to be lived far more intensely: we stumble and get up, we are sad, confident, insecure, feel loneliness and joy and love. There is nothing more; but I want nothing more.” 
― Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Infidel
: atheism, death, inspirational, life 463 

“Life is nothing without a little chaos to make it interesting.” 
― Amelia Atwater-Rhodes, Demon in My View
: chaos, life 463 

“Wisdom is having things right in your life
and knowing why.” 
― William Edgar Stafford
: life, wisdom 461 

“Take it moment by moment, and you will find that we are all, as I’ve said before, bugs in amber.” 
― Kurt Vonnegut
: existentialism, life, philosophy, wisdom 450 

“Never forget that anticipation is an important part of life. Work's important, family's important, but without excitement, you have nothing. You're cheating yourself if you refuse to enjoy what's coming.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, Three Weeks With My Brother
: anticipation, life 440 
“I believe in looking reality straight in the eye and denying it. ” 
― Garrison Keillor
“Every man has his secret sorrows which the world knows not; and often times we call a man cold when he is only sad.” 
― Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
: coldness, depression, happiness, life, sad, sadness, sorrow 5,205 

“If I had my life to live over again, I would have made a rule to read some poetry and listen to some music at least once every week.” 
― Charles Darwin, The Autobiography of Charles Darwin, 1809–82
: arts, life, music, poetry 1,968 

“He's not your prince charming if he doesn't make sure you know that you're his princess.” 
― Demi Lovato
: being-loved, life, love, true-love 710 

“Learning to let go should be learned before learning to get. Life should be touched, not strangled. You’ve got to relax, let it happen at times, and at others move forward with it.” 
― Ray Bradbury
: buddhism, common-sense, life, zen 706 

“Roads Go Ever On

Roads go ever ever on,
Over rock and under tree,
By caves where never sun has shone,
By streams that never find the sea;
Over snow by winter sown,
And through the merry flowers of June,
Over grass and over stone,
And under mountains in the moon.

Roads go ever ever on,
Under cloud and under star.
Yet feet that wandering have gone
Turn at last to home afar.
Eyes that fire and sword have seen,
And horror in the halls of stone
Look at last on meadows green,
And trees and hills they long have known.

The Road goes ever on and on
Down from the door where it began.
Now far ahead the Road has gone,
And I must follow, if I can,
Pursuing it with eager feet,
Until it joins some larger way,
Where many paths and errands meet.

The Road goes ever on and on
Down from the door where it began.
Now far ahead the Road has gone,
And I must follow, if I can,
Pursuing it with weary feet,
Until it joins some larger way,
Where many paths and errands meet.
And whither then? I cannot say.

The Road goes ever on and on
Out from the door where it began.
Now far ahead the Road has gone.
Let others follow, if they can!
Let them a journey new begin.
But I at last with weary feet
Will turn towards the lighted inn,
My evening-rest and sleep to meet.” 
― J.R.R. Tolkien, The Lord of the Rings
: life, poem
“I don’t live in either my past or my future. I’m interested only in the present. If you can concentrate always on the present, you’ll be a happy man. Life will be a party for you, a grand festival, because life is the moment we’re living now.” 
― Paulo Coelho, The Alchemist
: life 693
“To say goodbye is to die a little.” 
― Raymond Chandler, The Long Goodbye
: change, life, parting, romantics 681 

“There are two tragedies in life. One is to lose your heart's desire. The other is to gain it.” 
― George Bernard Shaw, Man and Superman
: desire, life, lost, paradox, tragedy 663 

“Many people die at twenty five and aren't buried until they are seventy five.” 
― Benjamin Franklin
: death, life, wordplay 647 

“Sure, we'd faced some things as children that a lot of kids don't. Sure, Justin had qualified for his Junior de Sade Badge in his teaching methods for dealing with pain. We still hadn't learned, though, that growing up is all about getting hurt. And then getting over it. You hurt. You recover. You move on. Odds are pretty good you're just going to get hurt again. But each time, you learn something.

Each time, you come out of it a little stronger, and at some point you realize that there are more flavors of pain than coffee. There's the little empty pain of leaving something behind - gradutaing, taking the next step forward, walking out of something familiar and safe into the unknown. There's the big, whirling pain of life upending all of your plans and expecations. There's the sharp little pains of failure, and the more obscure aches of successes that didn't give you what you thought they would. There are the vicious, stabbing pains of hopes being torn up. The sweet little pains of finding others, giving them your love, and taking joy in their life they grow and learn. There's the steady pain of empathy that you shrug off so you can stand beside a wounded friend and help them bear their burdens. 

And if you're very, very lucky, there are a very few blazing hot little pains you feel when you realized that you are standing in a moment of utter perfection, an instant of triumph, or happiness, or mirth which at the same time cannot possibly last - and yet will remain with you for life.

Everyone is down on pain, because they forget something important about it: Pain is for the living. Only the dead don't feel it.

Pain is a part of life. Sometimes it's a big part, and sometimes it isn't, but either way, it's a part of the big puzzle, the deep music, the great game. Pain does two things: It teaches you, tells you that you're alive. Then it passes away and leaves you changed. It leaves you wiser, sometimes. Sometimes it leaves you stronger. Either way, pain leaves its mark, and everything important that will ever happen to you in life is going to involve it in one degree or another.” 
― Jim Butcher
: elaine-mallory, harry-dresden, life, pain, wisdom 635 

“A quiet secluded life in the country, with the possibility of being useful to people to whom it is easy to do good, and who are not accustomed to have it done to them; then work which one hopes may be of some use; then rest, nature, books, music, love for one's neighbor — such is my idea of happiness.” 
― Leo Tolstoy, Family Happiness
: books, conduct-of-life, contentment, country, happiness, life, music, nature, neighborliness, rest, usefulness, work 634 

“Sacrifice is a part of life. It's supposed to be. It's not something to regret. It's something to aspire to.” 
― Mitch Albom, The Five People You Meet in Heaven
: life, sacrifice 631 
“Life isn't about waiting for the storm to pass...It's about learning to dance in the rain.” 
― Vivian Greene
: life, storm 608 

“Successful people are always looking for opportunities to help others. 
Unsuccessful people are always asking, "What's in it for me?” 
― Brian Tracy
: benevolence, greed, life, wisdom 606 

“You're on Earth. There's no cure for that.” 
― Samuel Beckett
: life, planets, space-travel 595 

“You've a good heart. Sometimes that's enough to see you safe wherever you go. But mostly, it's not.” 
― Neil Gaiman, Neverwhere
: goodness, heart, life, living 592 

“I have always, essentially, been waiting. Waiting to become something else, waiting to be that person I always thought I was on the verge of becoming, waiting for that life I thought I would have. In my head, I was always one step away. In high school, I was biding my time until I could become the college version of myself, the one my mind could see so clearly. In college, the post-college “adult” person was always looming in front of me, smarter, stronger, more organized. Then the married person, then the person I’d become when we have kids. For twenty years, literally, I have waited to become the thin version of myself, because that’s when life will really begin.
And through all that waiting, here I am. My life is passing, day by day, and I am waiting for it to start. I am waiting for that time, that person, that event when my life will finally begin.
I love movies about “The Big Moment” – the game or the performance or the wedding day or the record deal, the stories that split time with that key event, and everything is reframed, before it and after it, because it has changed everything. I have always wanted this movie-worthy event, something that will change everything and grab me out of this waiting game into the whirlwind in front of me. I cry and cry at these movies, because I am still waiting for my own big moment. I had visions of life as an adventure, a thing to be celebrated and experienced, but all I was doing was going to work and coming home, and that wasn’t what it looked like in the movies.
John Lennon once said, “Life is what happens when you’re busy making other plans.” For me, life is what was happening while I was busy waiting for my big moment. I was ready for it and believed that the rest of my life would fade into the background, and that my big moment would carry me through life like a lifeboat.
The Big Moment, unfortunately, is an urban myth. Some people have them, in a sense, when they win the Heisman or become the next American Idol. But even that football player or that singer is living a life made up of more than that one moment. Life is a collection of a million, billion moments, tiny little moments and choices, like a handful of luminous, glowing pearl. It takes so much time, and so much work, and those beads and moments are so small, and so much less fabulous and dramatic than the movies.
But this is what I’m finding, in glimpses and flashes: this is it. This is it, in the best possible way. That thing I’m waiting for, that adventure, that move-score-worthy experience unfolding gracefully. This is it. Normal, daily life ticking by on our streets and sidewalks, in our houses and apartments, in our beds and at our dinner tables, in our dreams and prayers and fights and secrets – this pedestrian life is the most precious thing any of use will ever experience.” 
― Shauna Niequist, Cold Tangerines: Celebrating the Extraordinary Nature of Everyday Life
: life, waiting 584 

“There are no random acts...We are all connected...You can no more separate one life from another than you can separate a breeze from the wind...” 
― Mitch Albom, The Five People You Meet in Heaven
: life 552 
“If you can't do anything about it, laugh like hell.” 
― David Cook
: funny, life 499 

“It's everybody, I mean. Everything everybody does is so — I don't know — not wrong, or even mean, or even stupid necessarily. But just so tiny and meaningless and — sad-making. And the worst part is, if you go bohemian or something crazy like that, you're conforming just as much only in a different way.” 
― J.D. Salinger, Franny and Zooey
: life 482 

“You cannot control what happens to you, but you can control your attitude 
toward what happens to you, and in that, you will be mastering change rather 
than allowing it to master you.” 
― Brian Tracy
: life, wisdom 469 

“Here's what I think, Mr. Wind-Up Bird," said May Kasahara. "Everybody's born with some different thing at the core of their existence. And that thing, whatever it is, becomes like a heat source that runs each person from the inside. I have one too, of course. Like everybody else. But sometimes it gets out of hand. It swells or shrinks inside me, and it shakes me up. What I'd really like to do is find a way to communicate that feeling to another person. But I can't seem to do it. They just don't get it. Of course, the problem could be that I'm not explaining it very well, but I think it's because they're not listening very well. They pretend to be listening, but they're not, really. So I get worked up sometimes, and I do some crazy things.” 
― Haruki Murakami, The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle
: life 458 

“The aim of life is self-development. To realize one's nature perfectly - that is what each of us is here for.” 
― Oscar Wilde
: life 443 

“All the adversity I've had in my life, all my troubles and obstacles, have strengthened me... You may not realize it when it happens, but a kick in the teeth may be the best thing in the world for you.” 
― Walt Disney Company
: life 427 

“No single event can awaken within us a stranger whose existence we had never suspected. To live is to be slowly born.” 
― Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Flight to Arras
: life, philosophy 424 

“Too many people seem to believe that silence was a void that needed to be filled, even if nothing important was said.” 
― Nicholas Sparks, Nights in Rodanthe
: life, quietness 405 

“Hobbes: Do you think there's a God?
Calvin: Well, somebody's out to get me!” 
― Bill Watterson
: calvin, god, hobbes, life 385 
“Life is too short when you think of the length of death” 
― Sean Mangan
“Whether we fall by ambition, blood, or lust
Like diamonds we are cut with our own dust” 
― John Webster
“I want to create a seventeen-syllable word that encompasses the human condition, and then use that word to form the world’s most perfect haiku.” 
― Jarod Kintz, I Want
: haiku, humanity, life, perfection, poetry, relationships, words, writing
Dei Eruma post da

Quotes tagged as "life" (showing 241-270 of 3,000)

“It isn't what you have or who you are or where you are or what you are doing that makes you happy or unhappy. It is what you think about it.” 
― Dale Carnegie, How to Win Friends and Influence People
tags: attitude, contentment, happiness, inspirational, life 3,954 people liked it like

“please believe that things are good with me, and even when they're not, they will be soon enough. And i will always believe the same about you.” 
― Stephen Chbosky, The Perks of Being a Wallflower
tags: happiness, inspirational, life 1,721 people liked it like

“If you end up with a boring miserable life because you listened to your mom, your dad, your teacher, your priest, or some guy on television telling you how to do your shit, then you deserve it.” 
― Frank Zappa
tags: be-yourself, life, self-determination 1,568 people liked it like

“When we least expect it, life sets us a challenge to test our courage and willingness to change; at such a moment, there is no point in pretending that nothing has happened or in saying that we are not yet ready. The challenge will not wait. Life does not look back. A week is more than enough time for us to decide whether or not to accept our destiny.” 
― Paulo Coelho, The Devil and Miss Prym
tags: challenges, change, courage, life 1,537 people liked it like

“Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one's definition of your life, but define yourself.” 
― Harvey Fierstein
tags: be-yourself, identity, individuality, inspirational, life, self-determination, self-esteem, self-expression 1,534 people liked it like

“You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection” 
― Gautama Buddha
tags: inspiration, life, love, self-acceptance, self-esteem, wisdom 1,411 people liked it like

“Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough” 
― Oprah Winfrey
tags: appreciation, contentment, dissatisfaction, life, perception, positivity, thankfulness 1,395 people liked it like

“The mouth is made for communication, and nothing is more articulate than a kiss.” 
― Jarod Kintz, It Occurred to Me
tags: articulate, communication, funny, inspirational, kiss, kissing-quotes, life, mouth, romance, strange, true, wisdom 1,359 people liked it like

“The purpose of life is to live it, to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experience.” 
― Eleanor Roosevelt
tags: adventure, carpe-diem, enjoy-life, experience, inspirational, life, live-in-the-moment, purpose-of-life 1,333 people liked it like

“How nice -- to feel nothing, and still get full credit for being alive.” 
― Kurt Vonnegut, Slaughterhouse-Five
tags: catatonia, coma, life 1,158 people liked it like

“If you stay, I'll do whatever you want. I'll quit the band, go with you to New York. But if you need me to go away, I'll do that, too. I was talking to Liz and she said maybe coming back to your old life would be too painful, that maybe it'd be easier for you to erase us. And that would suck, but I'd do it. I can lose you like that if I don't lose you today. I'll let you go. If you stay.” 
― Gayle Forman, If I Stay
tags: infatuation, life, love, self-sacrifice 1,113 people liked it like

“Sometimes you have to kind of die inside in order to rise from your own ashes and believe in yourself and love yourself to become a new person.” 
― Gerard Way
tags: life, rebirth, self-discovery 1,097 people liked it like

“When you're lost in those woods, it sometimes takes you a while to realize that you are lost. For the longest time, you can convince yourself that you've just wandered off the path, that you'll find your way back to the trailhead any moment now. Then night falls again and again, and you still have no idea where you are, and it's time to admit that you have bewildered yourself so far off the path that you don't even know from which direction the sun rises anymore.” 
― Elizabeth Gilbert
tags: depression, life 1,054 people liked it like

“Almost nobody dances sober, unless they happen to be insane.” 
― H.P. Lovecraft
“Accept what life offers you and try to drink from every cup. All wines should be tasted; some should only be sipped, but with others, drink the whole bottle.” 
― Paulo Coelho, Brida
“One lives in the hope of becoming a memory.” 
― Antonio Porchia
“A pain stabbed my heart, as it did every time I saw a girl I loved who was going the opposite direction in this too-big world.” 
― Jack Kerouac, On the Road
“There is no good and evil, there is only power and those too weak to seek it.” 
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
“Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.” 
― Henry David Thoreau, Civil Disobedience and Other Essays
“That what I need to survive is not Gale's fire, kindled with rage and hatred. I have plenty of fire myself. What I need is the dandelion in the spring. The bright yellow that means rebirth instead of destruction. The promise that life can go on, no matter how bad our losses. That it can be good again. And only Peeta can give me that.” 
― Suzanne Collins, Mockingjay
“Develop an interest in life as you see it; the people, things, literature, music - the world is so rich, simply throbbing with rich treasures, beautiful souls and interesting people. Forget yourself.” 
― Henry Miller
“Oh the places you'll go! There is fun to be done! There are points to be scored. There are games to be won. And the magical things you can do with that ball will make you the winning-est winner of all.” 
― Dr. Seuss, Oh, The Places You’ll Go!: Yellow Back Book
“What would come, would come...and you would have to meet it, when it did.” 
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
“You were given life; it is your duty (and also your entitlement as a human being) to find something beautiful within life, no matter how slight.” 
― Elizabeth Gilbert
“When a girl says she wants to be friends with benefits, I always ask if that includes dental insurance.” 
“The best of us must sometimes eat our words.” 
― J.K. Rowling
“Our lives are not as limited as we think they are; the world is a wonderfully weird place; consensual reality is significantly flawed; no institution can be trusted, but love does work; all things are possible; and we all could be happy and fulfilled if we only had the guts to be truly free and the wisdom to shrink our egos and quit taking ourselves so damn seriously.” 
― Tom Robbins
“In all of living, have much fun and laughter. Life is to be enjoyed, not just endured.” 
“I don't get it,' Caroline said, bemused. 'She's the only one with wings. Why is that?'
There were so many questions in life. You couldn't ever have all the answers. But I knew this one.
It's so she can fly,' I said. Then I started to run.” 
― Sarah Dessen, The Truth About Forever
“We should count time by heart-throbs. He most lives,
Who thinks most, feels noblest, acts the best.” 
― Philip James Bailey, Festus: A Poem
If you were half as funny as you think you are, you'd be twice as funny as you are now.” 
― Cassandra Clare, City of Bones
tags: funny, humorous, jace 8,146 people liked it like

“Going to church doesn’t make you a Christian any more than going to a garage makes you an automobile.” 
― Billy Sunday, Billy Sunday, the Man and His Message: With His Own Words Which Have Won Thousands for Christ
tags: automobile, car, funny, humor, religious 7,000 people liked it like

“You know the world is going crazy when the best rapper is a white guy, the best golfer is a black guy, the tallest guy in the NBA is Chinese, the Swiss hold the America's Cup, France is accusing the U.S. of arrogance, Germany doesn't want to go to war, and the three most powerful men in America are named "Bush", "Dick", and "Colin." Need I say more?” 
― Chris Rock
tags: comedy, everyday-life, funny, humor, observational-comedy 6,453 people liked it like

“Well, don't expect us to be too impressed. We just saw Finnick Odair in his underwear.” 
― Suzanne Collins, Mockingjay
tags: boggs, finnick, funny, humour, hunger-games, katniss, mockingjay, odair, suzanne-collins, witty 6,418 people liked it like

“Never go to bed mad. Stay up and fight.” 
― Phyllis Diller
tags: anger, funny, sleep 6,313 people liked it like

“It's not true that I had nothing on. I had the radio on.” 
― Marilyn Monroe
tags: dirty, funny, logo, sex 5,111 people liked it like

“Everyone should be able to do one card trick, tell two jokes, and recite three poems, in case they are ever trapped in an elevator.” 
― Lemony Snicket, Horseradish: Bitter Truths You Can't Avoid
tags: funny 4,537 people liked it like

“I did not attend his funeral, but I sent a nice letter saying I approved of it.” 
― Mark Twain
tags: classic-insult, funeral, funny, humor 4,232 people liked it like

“The planet is fine. The people are fucked.” 
― George Carlin
tags: funny, humanity, humor 4,194 people liked it like

“What the hell is that?" I laughed.
"It's my fox hat."
"Your fox hat?"
"Yeah, Pudge. My fox hat."
"Why are you wearing your fox hat?" I asked.
"Because no one can catch the motherfucking fox.” 
― John Green, Looking for Alaska
“Once you can accept the universe as matter expanding into nothing that is something, wearing stripes with plaid comes easy.” 
― Albert Einstein
“They love their hair because they're not smart enough to love something more interesting.” 
― John Green, Looking for Alaska
“When life gives you lemons, squirt someone in the eye.” 
― Cathy Guisewite
“A lie gets halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to get its pants on.” 
― Winston Churchill
“If a book about failures doesn't sell, is it a success?” 
― Jerry Seinfeld
“I came from a real tough neighborhood. Once a guy pulled a knife on me. I knew he wasn't a professional, the knife had butter on it.” 
― Rodney Dangerfield
“It's not because I want to make out with her."
Hold on." He grabbed a pencil and scrawled excitedly at the paper as if he'd just made a mathematical breakthrough and then looked back up at me. "I just did some calculations, and I've been able to determine that you're full of shit” 
― John Green, Looking for Alaska
“Always go to other people's funerals, otherwise they won't come to yours.” 
― Yogi Berra, When You Come to a Fork in the Road, Take It!: Inspiration and Wisdom from One of Baseball's Greatest Heroes
“If loving someone is putting them in a straitjacket and kicking them down a flight of stairs, then yes, I have loved a few people.” 
― Jarod Kintz, It Occurred to Me
“Don't be so humble - you are not that great.” 
― Golda Meir
“A word to the wise ain't necessary, it's the stupid ones who need advice.” 
“Did you see that dress?” "I saw the dress.” "Did you like it?” He didn't answer. I took that as a yes. "Am I going to endanger my reputation if I wear it to the dance?” When he spoke, I could barely hear him. "You'll endanger the school.” I smiled and fell asleep.” 
― Richelle Mead, Vampire Academy
“I'm going to wake Peeta," I say.
"No, wait," says Finnick. "Let's do it together. Put our faces right in front of his."
Well, there's so little opportunity for fun left in my life, I agree. We position ourselves on either side of Peeta, lean over until our faces are inches frim his nose, and give him a shake. "Peeta. Peeta, wake up," I say in a soft, singsong voice.
His eyelids flutter open and then he jumps like we've stabbed him. "Aa!"
Finnick and I fall back in the sand, laughing our heads off. Every time we try to stop, we look at Peeta's attempt to maintain a disdainful expression and it sets us off again.” 
― Suzanne Collins, Catching Fire
“Damn, Claire. Warn a guy before you do a face-plant on the floor next time. I could have looked all heroic and caught you or something -Shane” 
― Rachel Caine, Glass Houses
“That's why they call it the American Dream, because you have to be asleep to believe it.” 
― George Carlin
“I cannot go to school today"
Said little Peggy Ann McKay.
"I have the measles and the mumps,
A gash, a rash and purple bumps.
My mouth is wet, my throat is dry.
I'm going blind in my right eye.
My tonsils are as big as rocks,
I've counted sixteen chicken pox.
And there's one more - that's seventeen,
And don't you think my face looks green?
My leg is cut, my eyes are blue,
It might be the instamatic flu.
I cough and sneeze and gasp and choke,
I'm sure that my left leg is broke.
My hip hurts when I move my chin,
My belly button's caving in.
My back is wrenched, my ankle's sprained,
My 'pendix pains each time it rains.
My toes are cold, my toes are numb,
I have a sliver in my thumb.
My neck is stiff, my voice is weak,
I hardly whisper when I speak.
My tongue is filling up my mouth,
I think my hair is falling out.
My elbow's bent, my spine ain't straight,
My temperature is one-o-eight.
My brain is shrunk, I cannot hear,
There's a hole inside my ear.
I have a hangnail, and my heart is ...
What? What's that? What's that you say?
You say today is .............. Saturday?
G'bye, I'm going out to play!” 
― Shel Silverstein
He pointed to himself. "Male and eighteen. What's your point?” 
― Rachel Caine, Midnight Alley
“What makes big boobs and perkiness so attractive to boys? I mean, really. Two round, mounds of fat and a fake smile. Yeah, winning attributes.” 
― Gena Showalter, Oh My Goth
“What a kid I got, I told him about the birds and the bees and he told me about the butcher and my wife.” 
― Rodney Dangerfield
Pythons snake live near the equator, in Asia and Africa, where it is hot and wet and their huge bodies can stay warm.  They make their homes in caves or in trees and have become used to living in cities and towns since people have been moving in on their territory.
Being closer to people means that not only will the snakes hunt the livestock (pigs, goats, dogs, cats and chickens), it also means that they may attack people when feeling threatened, although this rarely happens.
Speaking of feeling threatened, one of the biggest reasons that pythons are killed is for their large, beautiful skins.  Some people actually like to wear snakeskin pants, vests, cowboy boots, and shoes! 
Pythons snake are constrictors, which means that they will ‘squeeze’ the life out of their prey.  They coil themselves around their prey and with each breathe the creature takes the snake will squeeze a little tighter until they stop breathing completely.  Once the heart stops the prey is swallowed whole.  The entire animal is digested in the snake’s stomach except for fur or feathers.  What do you think happens to the fur, feathers, beaks, and eggshells? The ‘extra stuff’ gets passed out as… you guessed it…snake POOP!
Along with farm animals, pythons will feed on wild animals such as lizards, caiman (small alligator-like animals), monkeys and antelope.  The larger the meal, the longer it takes to digest.  This means that a python may only need to eat 4-5 times a year!
The Green Tree Python is around 7 feet long and lives in…you guessed it...the trees! It waits in the leaves of the high forest branches and strikes out at birds as they fly by.
Pythons snake lay eggs and will coil their bodies around the eggs to keep them warm and protect them until hatching.
