acid rain - the precipitation of dilute solutions of strong mineral acids, formed by the mixing in the atmosphere of various industrial pollutants -- primarily sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides -- with naturally occurring oxygen and water vapor.

act - in the legislative sense, a bill or measure passed by both houses of Congress; a law.

adjournment - the end of a legislative day or session.

aerosol - a suspension of small liquid or solid particles in gas.

air pollution - toxic or radioactive gases or particulate matter introduced into the atmosphere, usually as a result of human activity.

alternative energy - energy that is not popularly used and is usually environmentally sound, such as solar or wind energy (as opposed to fossil fuels).

alternative fibers - fibers produced from non-wood sources for use in paper making.

alternative fuels - transportation fuels other than gasoline or diesel. Includes natural gas, methanol, and electricity.

alternative transportation - modes of travel other than private cars, such as walking, bicycling, rollerblading, carpooling and transit.

amendment - a change or addition to an existing law or rule.

Go to Top
ancient forest - a forest that is typically older than 200 years with large trees, dense canopies and an abundance of diverse wildlife.

apportionment - the process through which legislative seats are allocated to different regions.

appropriation - the setting aside of funds for a designated purpose (e.g., there is an appropriation of $7 billion to build 5 new submarines).

aquaculture - the controlled rearing of fish or shellfish by people or corporations who own the harvestable product, often involving the capture of the eggs or young of a species from wild sources, followed by rearing more intensively than possible in nature.

aquifer - underground source of water.

arms control - coordinated action based on agreements to limit, regulate, or reduce weapon systems by the parties involved.

ash - incombustible residue left over after incineration or other thermal processes.

asthma - a condition marked by labored breathing, constriction of the chest, coughing and gasping usually brought on by allergies.

atmosphere - the 500 km thick layer of air surrounding the earth which supports the existence of all flora and fauna.

atomic energy - energy released in nuclear reactions. When a neutron splits an atom's nucleus into smaller pieces it is called fission. When two nuclei are joined together under millions of degrees of heat it is called fusion.
beach closure - the closing of a beach to swimming, usually because of pollution.

bill - a proposed law, to be debated and voted on.

billfish - pelagic fish with long, spear-like protrusions at their snouts, such as swordfish and marlin.

biodegradable - waste material composed primarily of naturally-occurring constituent parts, able to be broken down and absorbed into the ecosystem. Wood, for example, is biodegradable, for example, while plastics are not.

biodiversity - a large number and wide range of species of animals, plants, fungi, and microorganisms. Ecologically, wide biodiversity is conducive to the development of all species.

biomass - (1) the amount of living matter in an area, including plants, large animals and insects; (2) plant materials and animal waste used as fuel.

biosphere - (1) the part of the earth and its atmosphere in which living organisms exist or that is capable of supporting life; (2) the living organisms and their environment composing the biosphere.

Go to Top
Biosphere Reserve - a part of an international network of preserved areas designated by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Biosphere Reserves are vital centers of biodiversity where research and monitoring activities are conducted, with the participation of local communities, to protect and preserve healthy natural systems threatened by development. The global system currently includes 324 reserves in 83 countries.

biotic - of or relating to life.

birth control - preventing birth or reducing frequency of birth, primarily by preventing conception.

birth defects - unhealthy defects found in newborns, often caused by the mother's exposure to environmental hazards or the intake of drugs or alcohol during pregnancy.

birth rate - the number of babies born annually per 1,000 women of reproductive age in any given set of people.

bloc - a group of people with the same interest or goal (usually used to describe a voting bloc, a group of representatives intending to vote the same way).

blood lead levels - the amount of lead in the blood. Human exposure to lead in blood can cause brain damage, especially in children.

bottled water - purchased water sold in bottles.

Go to Top
brownfields - abandoned, idled, or under-used industrial and commercial facilities where expansion or redevelopment is complicated by real or perceived environmental contamination.

budget - a formal projection of spending and income for an upcoming period of time, traditionally submitted by the President or Executive for consideration and approval.

budget reconciliation - legislation making changes to existing law (such as entitlements under Social Security or Medicare) so that it conforms to numbers in the budget resolution.

budget resolution - the first step in the annual budget process. This resolution must be agreed to by the House and Senate. It is not signed by the President and does not have the effect of law, but instead sets out the targets and assumptions that will guide Congress as it passes the annual appropriations and other budget bills.

bycatch - fish and/or other marine life that are incidentally caught with the targeted species. Most of the time bycatch is discarded at sea.

bycatch reduction device (bdr) - a devise used to cut bycatch while fishing. These gear modifications are most commonly used with shrimp trawls. They are also called "finfish excluder devices" (feds) or, when specifically designed to exclude sea turtles, they are called "turtle excluder devices" (teds).
Cairo Plan - recommendations for stabilizing world population agreed upon at the U.N. International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo in September 1994. The plan calls for improved health care and family planning services for women, children and families throughout the world, and also emphasizes the importance of education for girls as a factor in the shift to smaller families.

calendar - in the legislative sense, a group of bills or proposals to be discussed or considered in a legislative committee or on the floor of the House or Senate.

cancer - unregulated growth of changed cells; a group of changed, growing cells (tumor).

carbon dioxide (CO2) - a naturally occurring greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, concentrations of which have increased (from 280 parts per million in preindustrial times to over 350 parts per million today) as a result of humans' burning of coal, oil, natural gas and organic matter (e.g., wood and crop wastes).

carbon tax - a charge on fossil fuels (coal, oil, natural gas) based on their carbon content. When burned, the carbon in these fuels becomes carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, the chief greenhouse gas.

carcinogens - substances that cause cancer, such as tar.

carpooling - sharing a car to a destination to reduce fuel use, pollution and travel costs.

caucus - a meeting of a political party, usually to appoint representatives to party positions.

CFC - see chlorofluorocarbons.

Go to Top
chamber - as regards the U.S. government, either the House of Representatives or the Senate.

chlorination byproducts - cancer-causing chemicals created when chlorine used for water disinfection combines with dirt and organic matter in water.
chlorine - a highly reactive halogen element, used most often in the form of a pungent gas to disinfect drinking water.
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) - stable, artificially-created chemical compounds containing carbon, chlorine, fluorine and sometimes hydrogen. Chlorofluorocarbons, used primarily to facilitate cooling in refrigerators and air conditioners, have been found to damage the stratospheric ozone layer which protects the earth and its inhabitants from excessive ultraviolet radiation.
Clayoquot Sound - one of the last remaining unlogged watersheds on the west coast of Canada's Vancouver Island.
clean fuel - fuels which have lower emissions than conventional gasoline and diesel. Refers to alternative fuels as well as to reformulated gasoline and diesel.
cleanup - treatment, remediation, or destruction of contaminated material.
clearcutting - a logging technique in which all trees are removed from an area, typically 20 acres or larger, with little regard for long-term forest health.
climate change - a regional change in temperature and weather patterns. Current science indicates a discernible link between climate change over the last century and human activity, specifically the burning of fossil fuels.
cloture - the formal end to a debate or filibuster in the Senate requiring a three-fifths vote.
coastal pelagic - fish that live in the open ocean at or near the water's surface but remain relatively close to the coast. Mackerel, anchovies, and sardines are examples of coastal pelagic fish.
commercial extinction - the depletion of a population to the point where fisherman cannot catch enough to be economically worthwhile.
communities of color - Hispanic, black or Asian people or groups living together or connected in some way.
community right-to-know - public accessibility to information about toxic pollution.
compact fluorescents - florescent light bulbs small enough to fit into standard light sockets, which are much more energy-efficient than standard incandescent bulbs.
compost - process whereby organic wastes, including food wastes, paper, and yard wastes, decompose naturally, resulting in a product rich in minerals and ideal for gardening and farming as a soil conditioners, mulch, resurfacing material, or landfill cover.
Congressional Record - a document published by the government printing office recording all debates, votes and discussions taking place in the Congress; available for free inspection at all government document repositories, as well as in some major libraries.
contamination - pollution.
contraceptive - preventing conception and pregnancy.
creek - a watercourse smaller than, and often tributary to, a river.
critical mass - the minimum mass of fissionable material that will support a sustaining chain reaction.
crop dusting - the application of pesticides to plants by a low-flying plane.
cryptosporidium - a protozoan (single-celled organism) that can infect humans, usually as a result of exposure to contaminated drinking water.
Demand Side Management (DSM) - an attempt by utilities to reduce customers' demand for electricity or energy by encouraging efficiency.
demersal - fish that live on or near the ocean bottom. They are often called benthic fish, groundfish, or bottom fish.
development - (1) a developed tract of land (with houses or structures); (2) the act, process or result of developing.
diesel - a petroleum-based fuel which is burned in engines ignited by compression rather than spark; commonly used for heavy duty engines including buses and trucks.
diesel engine - an internal combustion engine that uses diesel as fuel, producing harmful fumes.
dioxin - a man-made chemical by-product formed during the manufacturing of other chemicals and during incineration. Studies show that dioxin is the most potent animal carcinogen ever tested, as well as the cause of severe weight loss, liver problems, kidney problems, birth defects, and death.
double hulled tankers - large transport ships with two hulls with space between them, protecting the cargo (in most cases, oil) from spilling in case of a collision.
dredge - a fishing method that utilizes a bag dragged behind a vessel that scrapes the ocean bottom, usually to catch shellfish. Dredges are often equiped with metal spikes in order to dig up the catch.
driftnet - a huge net stretching across many miles that drifts in the water; used primarily for large-scale commercial fishing.
dump sites - waste disposal grounds.
ecologist - a scientist concerned with the interrelationship of organisms and their environment.
ecology - a branch of science concerned with the interrelationship of organisms and their environment.
ecosystem - an interconnected and symbiotic grouping of animals, plants, fungi, and microorganisms.
edge cities - cities bounded by water, usually with eroding or polluted waterfront areas.
electric vehicles - vehicles which use electricity (usually derived from batteries recharged from electrical outlets) as their power source.
emissions cap - a limit on the amount of greenhouse gases that a company or country can legally emit.
endangered species - species in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant part of its range.
endocrine disruptors - substances that stop the production or block the transmission of hormones in the body.
energy conservation - using energy efficiently or prudently; saving energy.
energy efficiency - technologies and measures that reduce the amount of electricity and/or fuel required to do the same work, such as powering homes, offices and industries.
enrolled bill - the final, certified bill sent to the President; House and Senate versions of a bill must match exactly in order to be enrolled.
equity - in the environmental sense, the planned dispersement of toxic or waste facilities in regions throughout the socioeconomic strata.
estuary - a bay or inlet, often at the mouth of a river, in which large quantities of freshwater and seawater mix together. These unique habitats are necessary nursery grounds for many marine fishes and shellfishes.
eugenics - the study of hereditary improvement of the human race by controlled selective breeding.
Everglades - large and biologically diverse wetland ecosystem in South Florida.
executive session - a congressional meeting closed to the public (and the media).
exurbia - (1) the area of suburbs; (2) the region outside a city and its suburbs where wealthier families live.
fisheries - an established area where fish species are cultivated and caught.
fissile material - material fissionable by slow neutrons. The fission process and the fissile isotopes are the source of energy in nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors.
fission - the process whereby the nucleus of a particular heavy element splits into (generally) two nuclei of lighter elements, with the release of substantial amounts of energy.
flora - the total vegetation assemblage that inhabits an area.
forest certification - a process of labeling wood that has been harvested from a well-managed forest.
forests - lands on which trees are the principal plant life, usually conducive to wide biodiversity.
fossil fuel - a fuel, such as coal, oil, and natural gas, produced by the decomposition of ancient (fossilized) plants and animals; compare to alternative energy.
gas - natural gas, used as fuel.
gasoline - petroleum fuel, used to power cars, trucks, lawn mowers, etc.
geothermal - literally, heat from the earth; energy obtained from the hot areas under the surface of the earth.
gillnets - walls of netting that are usually staked to the sea floor. Fish become entangled or caught by their gills. (See also driftnets).
global warming - increase in the average temperature of the earth's surface.
grassroots - local or person-to-person. A typical grassroots effort might include a door-to-door education and survey campaign.
grazing - the use of grasses and other plants to feed wild or domestic herbivores such as deer, sheep and cows.
green design - a design, usually architectural, conforming to environmentally sound principles of building, material and energy use. A green building, for example, might make use of solar panels, skylights, and recycled building materials.
greenhouse - a building made with translucent (light transparent, usually glass or fiberglass) walls conducive to plant growth.
greenhouse effect - the process that raises the temperature of air in the lower atmosphere due to heat trapped by greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, chlorofluorocarbons, and ozone.
greenhouse gas - a gas involved in the greenhouse effect.
greenway - undeveloped land usually in cities, set aside or used for recreation or conservation.
groundfish - a general term referring to fish that live on or near the sea floor. Groundfish are also called bottom fish or demersal fish.
groundwater - water below the earth's surface; the source of water for wells and springs.
growth overfishing - the process of catching fish before they are fully grown resulting in a decrease in the average size of the fish population.
habitat - (1) the natural home of an animal or plant; (2) the sum of the environmental conditions that determine the existence of a community in a specific place.
harpooning - a surface method of fishing that requires considerable effort in locating and chasing individual fish. Harpoons are hand-held or fired from a harpoon gun and aimed at high-value fish, such as giant tuna and swordfish.
haze - an atmospheric condition marked by a slight reduction in atmospheric visibility, resulting from the formation of photochemical smog, radiation of heat from the ground surface on hot days, or the development of a thin mist.
hearings - testimony (sworn statements like those given in court) given before a Congressional committee.
high seas - international ocean water under no single country's legal jurisdiction.
highly migratory fish - fish that travel over great areas.
household hazards - dangerous substances or conditions in human dwellings.
hydroelectric - relating to electric energy produced by moving water.
hydrofluorocarbons - used as solvents and cleaners in the semiconductor industry, among others; experts say that they possess global warming potentials that are thousands of times greater than CO2.
hydropower - energy or power produced by moving water.
ICBM (Intercontinental Ballistic Missile) - a land-based or mobile rocket-propelled missile capable of delivering a nuclear warhead to a range greater than 5,500 kilometers.

ICPD - International Conference on Population and Development.
incinerators - disposal systems that burn solid waste or other materials and reduce volume of waste. Air pollution and toxic ash are problems associated with incineration.
industrialized countries - nations whose economies are based on industrial production and the conversion of raw materials into insecticides - substances used to kill insects and prevent infestation.
International Conference on Population and Development - a conference sponsored by the United Nations to discuss global dimensions of International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) - an international organization made up of national level affiliates representing every region of the world. IPPF receives and distributes funds from international donor nations to its affiliates, who in turn provide 
landfill - disposal area where garbage is piled up and eventually covered with dirt and topsoil.
landings - the amount of fish brought back to the docks and marketed. Landings can describe the kept catch of one vessel, of an entire fishery, or of several fisheries combined.
land use - the way in which land is used, especially in farming and city planning.
law - an act or bill which has become part of the legal code through passage by Congress and approval by the President (or via Congressional override).
lead - a naturally-occurring heavy, soft metallic element; human exposure can cause brain and nervous system damage, especially in children.
lead poisoning - damaging the body (specifically the brain) by absorbing lead through the skin or by swallowing.
least-cost planning - a process for satisfying consumers' demands for energy services at the lowest societal cost.
life cycle assessment - methodology developed to assess a product's full environmental costs, from raw material to final disposal.
light pollution - environmental pollution consisting of harmful or annoying light.
litter - waste material which is discarded on the ground or otherwise disposed of improperly or thoughtlessly.
logging - cutting down trees for commodity use.
longlines - fishing lines stretching for dozens of miles and baited with hundreds of hooks. Longlines are indiscriminate and unintentionally catch and kill immature fish along with a wide variety of other animals in the Atlantic including tunas, sharks, marlins, sailfish, sea turtles and occasionally pilot whales and dolphins.
low-emission vehicles - vehicles which emit little air pollution compared to conventional internal combustion engines.
lumber - wood or wood products used for construction.
mammal - an animal that feeds its young with milk secreted from mammary glands and has hair on its skin.
managed growth - growth or expansion that is controlled so as not to be harmful.
manatee - a plant-eating aquatic mammal found in the waters of Florida, the Caribbean, and off the coast of West Africa.
marbled murrelet - a rare and imperiled bird that nests in ancient forests on the west coast of the U.S.
marine mammal - a mammal that lives in the ocean, such as a whale.
marsh - wetland, swamp, or bog.
medfly - the Mediterranean fruit fly, a flying insect.
mining - the removal of minerals (like coal , gold, or silver) from the ground.
noise pollution - environmental pollution made up of harmful or annoying noise.
nuclear energy - energy or power produced by nuclear reactions (fusion or fission).
nuclear power - see nuclear energy.
nuclear reactor - an apparatus in which nuclear fission may be initiated, maintained, and controlled to produce energy, conduct research, or produce fissile material for nuclear explosives.
nuclear tests - government tests carried out to supply information required for the design and improvement of nuclear weapons, and to study the phenomena and effects associated with nuclear explosions.
oceanography - the study of the ocean and ocean life.
oil spills - the harmful release of oil into the environment, usually in the water, sometimes killing area flora and fauna. Oil spills are very difficult to clean up.
old growth forests - see ancient forests.
over-development - expansion or development of land to the point of damage.
over-fishing - fishing beyond the capacity of a population to replace itself through natural reproduction.
over-grazing - grazing livestock to the point of damage to the land.
ozone - a naturally occurring, highly reactive gas comprising triatomic oxygen formed by recombination of oxygen in the presence of ultraviolet radiation. This naturally occurring gas builds up in the lower atmosphere as smog pollution, while in the upper atmosphere ozone depletion - the reduction of the protective layer of ozone in the upper atmosphere by chemical pollution.
ozone hole - a hole or gap in the protective layer of ozone in the upper atmosphere.
paper - thin sheet of material made of cellulose pulp, derived mainly from wood, but also from rags and certain grasses, and processed into flexible leaves or rolls. Used primarily for writing, printing, drawing, wrapping, and covering walls.

paper mills - mills (factories) that produce paper from wood pulp.

paper products - materials such as paper and cardboard, produced from trees.

particulate - of or relating to minute discrete particles; a particulate substance.

particulate pollution - pollution made up of small liquid or solid particles suspended in the atmosphere or water supply.

passive solar - using or capturing solar energy (usually to heat water) without any external power.

pelagic species - fish that live at or near the water's surface. Examples of large pelagic species include swordfish, tuna, and many species of sharks. Small pelagics include anchovies and sardines.

pesticides - chemical agents used to destroy pests.

plastics - durable and flexible synthetic-based products, some of which are difficult to recycle and pose problems with toxic properties, especially PVC plastic.

plutonium - a heavy, radioactive, man-made, metallic element (atomic number 94) used in the production of nuclear energy and the explosion of nuclear weapons; its most important isotope is fissile plutonium-239, produced by neutron irradiation of uranium-238.

Go to Top
PM10 - particulate matter less than 10 microns in diameter.

poison runoff - see polluted runoff.

poison - a chemical that adversely affects health by causing injury, illness, or death.

polluted runoff - precipitation that captures pollution from agricultural lands, urban streets, parking lots and suburban lawns, and transports it to rivers, lakes or oceans.

pollution prevention - techniques that eliminate waste prior to treatment, such as by changing ingredients in a chemical reaction.

population - (1) the whole number of inhabitants in a country, region or area; (2) a set of individuals having a quality or characteristic in common.
power plants - facilities (plants) that produce energy.

public estate - public land

public health - the health or physical well-being of a whole community.

public land - land owned in common by all, represented by the government (town, county, state, or federal).
radioactive - of or characterized by radioactivity.
radioactive waste - the byproduct of nuclear reactions that gives off (usually harmful) radiation.
radioactivity - the spontaneous emission of matter or energy from the nucleus of an unstable atom (the emitted matter or energy is usually in the form of alpha or beta particles, gamma rays, or neutrons).
rainforest - a large, dense forest in a hot, humid region (tropical or subtropical). Rainforests have an abundance of diverse plant and animal life, much of which is still uncatalogued by the scientific community.
recycling - system of collecting, sorting, and reprocessing old material into usable raw materials.
reduce - act of purchasing or consuming less to begin with, so as not to have to reuse or recycle later.
refrigerants - cooling substances, many of which contain CFCs and are harmful to the earth's ozone layer.
renewable energy - energy resources such as windpower or solar energy that can keep producing indefinitely without being depleted.
reservoir - an artificial lake created and used for the storage of water.
resolution - a formal statement from Congress.
reuse - cleaning and/or refurbishing an old product to be used again.
rider - usually unrelated provisions tacked onto an existing Congressional bill. Since bills must pass or fail in their entirety, riders containing otherwise unpopular language are often added to popular bills.
solar energy - energy derived from sunlight.
solid waste - non-liquid, non gaseous category of waste from non-toxic household and commercial sources.
sprawl - the area taken up by a large or expanding development or city.
state land - land owned and administered by the state in which it is located.
state parks - parks and recreation areas owned and administered by the state in which they are located.
straddling stocks - fish populations that straddle a boundary between domestic and international waters.
stratosphere - the upper portion of the atmosphere (approximately 11 km to 50 km above the surface of the earth).
strip mining - mining technique in which the land and vegetation covering the mineral being sought are stripped away by huge machines, usually damaging the land severely and limiting subsequent uses.
sulfur dioxide (SO2) - a heavy, smelly gas which can be condensed into a clear liquid; used to make sulfuric acid, bleaching agents, preservatives and refrigerants; a major source of air pollution in industrial areas.
surface water - water located above ground (e.g., rivers, lakes).
sustainable communities - communities capable of maintaining their present levels of growth without damaging effects.
toxic - poisonous.
urban planning - the science of managing and directing city growth.
uranium - a heavy, radioactive metal (atomic number 92) used in the explosion of nuclear weapons (especially one isotope, U-235).
parks - parks in cities and areas of high population concentration.toxic emissions - poisonous chemicals discharged to air, water, or land.
toxic sites - land contaminated with toxic pollution, usually unsuitable for human habitation.
toxic waste - garbage or waste that can injure, poison, or harm living things, and is sometimes life-threatening.
toxification - poisoning.
trash - waste material that cannot be recycled and reused (synonymous with garbage).
trolling - a method of fishing using several lines, each hooked and baited, which are slowly dragged behind the vessel.
warhead - the part of a missile which contains the nuclear explosive.
waste - garbage, trash.
waste site - dumping ground.
waste stream - overall waste disposal cycle for a given population.
waterborne contaminants - unhealthy chemicals, microorganisms (like bacteria) or radiation, found in tap water.
water filters - substances (such as charcoal) or fine membrane structures used to remove impurities from water.
water quality - the level of purity of water; the safety or purity of drinking water.
water quality testing - monitoring water for various contaminants to make sure it is safe for fish protection, drinking, and swimming.
watershed - a region or area over which water flows into a particular lake, reservoir, stream, or river.
well - a dug or drilled hole used to get water from the earth.
wetland - land (marshes or swamps) saturated with water constantly or recurrently; conducive to wide biodiversity.
wilderness area - a wild area that Congress has preserved by including it in the National Wilderness Preservation System.
wildlife - animals living in the wilderness without human intervention.
wildlife refuges - land set aside to protect certain species of fish or wildlife (administered at the federal level in the U.S. by the Fish and Wildlife Service).
windpower - power or energy derived from the wind (via windmills, sails, etc.).
Wood #art taken at my dear friends wake today #nature #beauty #design #love #family http://instagram.com/p/akwMwotkCq/ 
AMAZING SCENERY! A Beautiful Log Fence on a Carpet of Bright Orange Leaves #nature #photo http://dld.bz/bSYAp 
Connect with #Nature through the Art of #Mentoring. Book now onto this #training! https://www.facebook.com/events/404142673033139/ … #Nature surprises once again! #Swan family beside the road. Just astonishing! #Finland #lappitour13 http://instagram.com/p/akvY_qpMrm/ 
RT@HBovill  Young Blackbird, taken yesterday afternoon.
RT@TinaShinty  Fledgling #Robin came across this wee one while watching the #Osprey pic.twitter.com/sgmc2L6q00  #birds #nature See the rainbow? Perks of living in Washington I suppose, it's beautiful 😌 #nature #waterfall pic.twitter.com/lC3dlpxDYB
Wallpaper lake, canada, landscape, mountain, british columbia http://goo.gl/fb/XO3k1  #nature
WOW! So many pumpkins! RT if you like this pic #redgage #nature http://dld.bz/cEmCG 
SACRED SPRING "A mix of Patrick Smith and Carl Hiaasen   with the added intrigue of romance. http://dld.bz/cEkwT  #nature #love #faith
They've made kilbogget quite a nice park :) #Nature #MorningWalk http://instagram.com/p/aks-45Mt2P/ 
#Nature Nature blog network http://natureblognetwork.com/ 
 Birds By Artmagenta ‏@ammagenta 3h
The Barn Swallow http://bird-of-the-day.blogspot.com/2011/11/barn-swallow.html … #bird #nature
 joanna gaylard ‏@joanneglard 5h
Caroline just released a lightning bug into my room. it is lighting up. #nature
Nature-Infused Book Art and Collages 
Look for #inspiration in #nature that doesn’t resist change.
#NiagaraFalls, off the beaten path 
Small White & Bee on Buttercups today ;) #nature
RT @iheartkcparks: We are nothing if not treehuggers. One more reason why
Good piece by Tim Gill on Project Wild Thing film #playoutside #nature 
Beautiful foggy morning at Upper Mississippi River #Refuge. Is #nature part of your morning routine?
Save nature.
Watch out for Supermoon in your night sky on June 23, 2013. What is a supermoon? 
Watch near end of video as hawk at QPark nears edge of its perch..contemplating first flight.  #nature
"Butterfflies are reminders that miracles happen every day.
Completely haunting: World's Earliest Tornado Photos http://bit.ly/ZDy4ma  #nature #tornadoes
 National Wildlife ‏@NWF 10 Jun
I believe a leaf of grass is no less than the journey-work of the stars. ~Walt Whitman #Nature #Quote
"Man is by #nature a curious #animal. You can hide the truth from him temporarily, but not for ever. Remember that." http://amzn.to/Baby Coon. #nature #zygarhouse @ Snoqualmie River (By Fall City) http://instagram.com/p/aXAKdDtaE-/ 
When I see the wonders of a sunset, my heart immerses in the worship of the Creator.
Sacred Spring, by DiVoran Lites, is a contemporary Christian romance novel with an environmental theme.Elaine Donovan’s forebears have owned the Sacred Spring campground in Central Florida for...
In my little world.. by `dragonfly-oli #Nature http://dlvr.it/3V7M6W 
I miss the cold water! Summer has been crazy hot! Photos taken at angel falls #nature pic.twitter.com/obTZGGHdOf
Accelerating Appalachia: Supporting #Nature-Based Business for Good
A beautiful day for some #golf with @michaelwpg & @brycegonorth. #nature @ Crescent Drive Golf Course http://instagram.com/p/Barbara Kingsolver argues that a disconnect from #nature is making us #fragile http://bbc.in/bMUE30 
Turquoise Ice in Northern Lake Baikal, Russia
'God's Bathtub:' Ancient Lake In Australia Found To Be Unaffected By Climate Change. http://j.mp/ZQZDea  #nature
The way it should be... living well in harmony with #nature
Nature, in the broadest sense, is equivalent to the natural world, physical world, or material world. "Nature" refers to the phenomena of the physical world, and also to life in general. It ranges in scale from the subatomic to the cosmic.
The word nature is derived from the Latin word natura, or "essential qualities, innate disposition", and in ancient times, literally meant "birth".[1] Natura was a Latin translation of the Greek word physis (φύσις), which originally related to the intrinsic characteristics that plants, animals, and other features of the world develop of their own accord.[2][3] The concept of nature as a whole, the physical universe, is one of several expansions of the original notion; it began with certain core applications of the word φύσις by pre-Socratic philosophers, and has steadily gained currency ever since. This usage was confirmed during the advent of modern scientific method in the last several centuries.[4][5]
Within the various uses of the word today, "nature" often refers to geology and wildlife. Nature may refer to the general realm of various types of living plants and animals, and in some cases to the processes associated with inanimate objects – the way that particular types of things exist and change of their own accord, such as the weather and geology of the Earth, and the matter and energy of which all these things are composed. It is often taken to mean the "natural environment" or wilderness–wild animals, rocks, forest, beaches, and in general those things that have not been substantially altered by human intervention, or which persist despite human intervention. For example, manufactured objects and human interaction generally are not considered part of nature, unless qualified as, for example, "human nature" or "the whole of nature". This more traditional concept of natural things which can still be found today implies a distinction between the natural and the artificial, with the artificial being understood as that which has been brought into being by a human consciousness or a human mind. Depending on the particular context, the term "natural" might also be distinguished from the unnatural, the supernatural, or synthetic.
Contents  [hide] 
1 Earth
1.1 Geology
1.1.1 Geological evolution
1.2 Historical perspective
2 Atmosphere, climate, and weather
3 Water on Earth
3.1 Oceans
3.2 Lakes
3.2.1 Ponds
3.3 Rivers
3.4 Streams
4 Ecosystems
4.1 Wilderness
5 Life
5.1 Evolution
5.2 Microbes
5.3 Plants, animals and microbes
6 Human interrelationship
6.1 Aesthetics and beauty
7 Matter and energy
7.1 Beyond Earth
8 See also
9 Notes and references
10 External links
Earth[edit]

Main articles: Earth and Earth science


View of the Earth, taken in 1972 by the Apollo 17 astronaut crew. This image is the only photograph of its kind to date, showing a fully sunlit hemisphere of the Earth.
Earth (or, "the earth") is the only planet presently known to support life, and its natural features are the subject of many fields of scientific research. Within the solar system, it is third closest to the sun; it is the largest terrestrial planet and the fifth largest overall. Its most prominent climatic features are its two large polar regions, two relatively narrow temperate zones, and a wide equatorial tropical to subtropical region.[6] Precipitation varies widely with location, from several metres of water per year to less than a millimetre. 71 percent of the Earth's surface is covered by salt-water oceans. The remainder consists of continents and islands, with most of the inhabited land in the Northern Hemisphere.
Earth has evolved through geological and biological processes that have left traces of the original conditions. The outer surface is divided into several gradually migrating tectonic plates. The interior remains active, with a thick layer of plastic mantle and an iron-filled core that generates a magnetic field.
The atmospheric conditions have been significantly altered from the original conditions by the presence of life-forms,[7] which create an ecological balance that stabilizes the surface conditions. Despite the wide regional variations in climate by latitude and other geographic factors, the long-term average global climate is quite stable during interglacial periods,[8] and variations of a degree or two of average global temperature have historically had major effects on the ecological balance, and on the actual geography of the Earth.[9][10]
Geology[edit]
Main article: Geology


Three types of geological plate tectonic boundaries.
Geology is the science and study of the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth. The field of geology encompasses the study of the composition, structure, physical properties, dynamics, and history of Earth materials, and the processes by which they are formed, moved, and changed. The field is a major academic discipline, and is also important for mineral and hydrocarbon extraction, knowledge about and mitigation of natural hazards, some Geotechnical engineering fields, and understanding past climates and environments.
Geological evolution[edit]
The geology of an area evolves through time as rock units are deposited and inserted and deformational processes change their shapes and locations.
Rock units are first emplaced either by deposition onto the surface or intrude into the overlying rock. Deposition can occur when sediments settle onto the surface of the Earth and later lithify into sedimentary rock, or when as volcanic material such as volcanic ash or lava flows, blanket the surface. Igneous intrusions such as batholiths, laccoliths, dikes, and sills, push upwards into the overlying rock, and crystallize as they intrude.
After the initial sequence of rocks has been deposited, the rock units can be deformed and/or metamorphosed. Deformation typically occurs as a result of horizontal shortening, horizontal extension, or side-to-side (strike-slip) motion. These structural regimes broadly relate to convergent boundaries, divergent boundaries, and transform boundaries, respectively, between tectonic plates.
Historical perspective[edit]
Main articles: History of the Earth and Evolution


Plankton inhabit oceans, seas and lakes, and have existed in various forms for at least 2 billion years.[11]


An animation showing the movement of the continents from the separation of Pangaea until the present day.
Earth is estimated to have formed 4.54 billion years ago from the solar nebula, along with the Sun and other planets.[12] The moon formed roughly 20 million years later. Initially molten, the outer layer of the planet cooled, resulting in the solid crust. Outgassing and volcanic activity produced the primordial atmosphere. Condensing water vapor, most or all of which came from ice delivered by comets, produced the oceans and other water sources.[13] The highly energetic chemistry is believed to have produced a self-replicating molecule around 4 billion years ago.[14]
Continents formed, then broke up and reformed as the surface of Earth reshaped over hundreds of millions of years, occasionally combining to make a supercontinent. Roughly 750 million years ago, the earliest known supercontinent Rodinia, began to break apart. The continents later recombined to form Pannotia which broke apart about 540 million years ago, then finally Pangaea, which broke apart about 180 million years ago.[15]
There is significant evidence that a severe glacial action during the Neoproterozoic era covered much of the planet in a sheet of ice. This hypothesis has been termed the "Snowball Earth", and it is of particular interest as it precedes the Cambrian explosion in which multicellular life forms began to proliferate about 530–540 million years ago.[16]
Since the Cambrian explosion there have been five distinctly identifiable mass extinctions.[17] The last mass extinction occurred some 65 million years ago, when a meteorite collision probably triggered the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs and other large reptiles, but spared small animals such as mammals, which then resembled shrews. Over the past 65 million years, mammalian life diversified.[18]
Several million years ago, a species of small African ape gained the ability to stand upright.[11] The subsequent advent of human life, and the development of agriculture and further civilization allowed humans to affect the Earth more rapidly than any previous life form, affecting both the nature and quantity of other organisms as well as global climate. By comparison, the Great Oxygenation Event, produced by the proliferation of algae during the Siderian period, required about 300 million years to culminate.
The present era is classified as part of a mass extinction event, the Holocene extinction event, the fastest ever to have occurred.[19][20] Some, such as E. O. Wilson of Harvard University, predict that human destruction of the biosphere could cause the extinction of one-half of all species in the next 100 years.[21] The extent of the current extinction event is still being researched, debated and calculated by biologists.[22]
Atmosphere, climate, and weather[edit]



Lightning


Blue light is scattered more than other wavelengths by the gases in the atmosphere, giving the Earth a blue halo when seen from space


A tornado in central Oklahoma
Main articles: Atmosphere of Earth, Climate, and Weather
The atmosphere of the Earth serves as a key factor in sustaining the planetary ecosystem. The thin layer of gases that envelops the Earth is held in place by the planet's gravity. Dry air consists of 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen, 1% argon and other inert gases, carbon dioxide, etc.; but air also contains a variable amount of water vapor. The atmospheric pressure declines steadily with altitude, and has a scale height of about 8 kilometres at the Earth's surface: the height at which the atmospheric pressure has declined by a factor of e (a mathematical constant equal to 2.71...).[23][24] The ozone layer of the Earth's atmosphere plays an important role in depleting the amount of ultraviolet (UV) radiation that reaches the surface. As DNA is readily damaged by UV light, this serves to protect life at the surface. The atmosphere also retains heat during the night, thereby reducing the daily temperature extremes.
Terrestrial weather occurs almost exclusively in the lower part of the atmosphere, and serves as a convective system for redistributing heat. Ocean currents are another important factor in determining climate, particularly the major underwater thermohaline circulation which distributes heat energy from the equatorial oceans to the polar regions. These currents help to moderate the differences in temperature between winter and summer in the temperate zones. Also, without the redistributions of heat energy by the ocean currents and atmosphere, the tropics would be much hotter, and the polar regions much colder.
Weather can have both beneficial and harmful effects. Extremes in weather, such as tornadoes or hurricanes and cyclones, can expend large amounts of energy along their paths, and produce devastation. Surface vegetation has evolved a dependence on the seasonal variation of the weather, and sudden changes lasting only a few years can have a dramatic effect, both on the vegetation and on the animals which depend on its growth for their food.
The planetary climate is a measure of the long-term trends in the weather. Various factors are known to influence the climate, including ocean currents, surface albedo, greenhouse gases, variations in the solar luminosity, and changes to the planet's orbit. Based on historical records, the Earth is known to have undergone drastic climate changes in the past, including ice ages.
The climate of a region depends on a number of factors, especially latitude. A latitudinal band of the surface with similar climatic attributes forms a climate region. There are a number of such regions, ranging from the tropical climate at the equator to the polar climate in the northern and southern extremes. Weather is also influenced by the seasons, which result from the Earth's axis being tilted relative to its orbital plane. Thus, at any given time during the summer or winter, one part of the planet is more directly exposed to the rays of the sun. This exposure alternates as the Earth revolves in its orbit. At any given time, regardless of season, the northern and southern hemispheres experience opposite seasons.
Weather is a chaotic system that is readily modified by small changes to the environment, so accurate weather forecasting is currently limited to only a few days.[citation needed] Overall, two things are currently happening worldwide: (1) temperature is increasing on the average; and (2) regional climates have been undergoing noticeable changes.[25]
Water on Earth[edit]



The Iguazu Falls on the border between Brazil and Argentina
Main article: Water
Water is a chemical substance that is composed of hydrogen and oxygen and is vital for all known forms of life.[26] In typical usage, water refers only to its liquid form or state, but the substance also has a solid state, ice, and a gaseous state, water vapor or steam. Water covers 71% of the Earth's surface.[27] On Earth, it is found mostly in oceans and other large water bodies, with 1.6% of water below ground in aquifers and 0.001% in the air as vapor, clouds (formed of solid and liquid water particles suspended in air), and precipitation.[28][29] Oceans hold 97% of surface water, glaciers and polar ice caps 2.4%, and other land surface water such as rivers, lakes and ponds 0.6%. Additionally, a minute amount of the Earth's water is contained within biological bodies and manufactured products.
Oceans[edit]


A view of the Atlantic Ocean from Leblon, Rio de Janeiro.

Earth's oceans
Arctic
Pacific
Atlantic
Indian
Southern
World Ocean
v t e
Main article: Ocean
An ocean is a major body of saline water, and a principal component of the hydrosphere. Approximately 71% of the Earth's surface (an area of some 361 million square kilometers) is covered by ocean, a continuous body of water that is customarily divided into several principal oceans and smaller seas. More than half of this area is over 3,000 meters (9,800 ft) deep. Average oceanic salinity is around 35 parts per thousand (ppt) (3.5%), and nearly all seawater has a salinity in the range of 30 to 38 ppt. Though generally recognized as several 'separate' oceans, these waters comprise one global, interconnected body of salt water often referred to as the World Ocean or global ocean.[30][31] This concept of a global ocean as a continuous body of water with relatively free interchange among its parts is of fundamental importance to oceanography.[32]
The major oceanic divisions are defined in part by the continents, various archipelagos, and other criteria: these divisions are (in descending order of size) the Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, the Indian Ocean, the Southern Ocean and the Arctic Ocean. Smaller regions of the oceans are called seas, gulfs, bays and other names. There are also salt lakes, which are smaller bodies of landlocked saltwater that are not interconnected with the World Ocean. Two notable examples of salt lakes are the Aral Sea and the Great Salt Lake.
Lakes[edit]


Lake Mapourika, New Zealand
Main article: Lake
A lake (from Latin lacus) is a terrain feature (or physical feature), a body of liquid on the surface of a world that is localized to the bottom of basin (another type of landform or terrain feature; that is, it is not global) and moves slowly if it moves at all. On Earth, a body of water is considered a lake when it is inland, not part of the ocean, is larger and deeper than a pond, and is fed by a river.[33][34] The only world other than Earth known to harbor lakes is Titan, Saturn's largest moon, which has lakes of ethane, most likely mixed with methane. It is not known if Titan's lakes are fed by rivers, though Titan's surface is carved by numerous river beds. Natural lakes on Earth are generally found in mountainous areas, rift zones, and areas with ongoing or recent glaciation. Other lakes are found in endorheic basins or along the courses of mature rivers. In some parts of the world, there are many lakes because of chaotic drainage patterns left over from the last Ice Age. All lakes are temporary over geologic time scales, as they will slowly fill in with sediments or spill out of the basin containing them.
Ponds[edit]


The Westborough Reservoir (Mill Pond) in Westborough, Massachusetts.
Main article: Pond
A pond is a body of standing water, either natural or man-made, that is usually smaller than a lake. A wide variety of man-made bodies of water are classified as ponds, including water gardens designed for aesthetic ornamentation, fish ponds designed for commercial fish breeding, and solar ponds designed to store thermal energy. Ponds and lakes are distinguished from streams via current speed. While currents in streams are easily observed, ponds and lakes possess thermally driven microcurrents and moderate wind driven currents. These features distinguish a pond from many other aquatic terrain features, such as stream pools and tide pools.
Rivers[edit]


The Nile river in Cairo, Egypt's capital city
Main article: River
A river is a natural watercourse,[35] usually freshwater, flowing toward an ocean, a lake, a sea or another river. In a few cases, a river simply flows into the ground or dries up completely before reaching another body of water. Small rivers may also be called by several other names, including stream, creek, brook, rivulet, and rill; there is no general rule that defines what can be called a river. Many names for small rivers are specific to geographic location; one example is Burn in Scotland and North-east England. Sometimes a river is said to be larger than a creek,[36] but this is not always the case, due to vagueness in the language.[37] A river is part of the hydrological cycle. Water within a river is generally collected from precipitation through surface runoff, groundwater recharge, springs, and the release of stored water in natural ice and snowpacks (i.e., from glaciers).
Streams[edit]


A rocky stream in Hawaii
Main article: Stream
A stream is a flowing body of water with a current, confined within a bed and stream banks. In the United States a stream is classified as a watercourse less than 60 feet (18 metres) wide. Streams are important as conduits in the water cycle, instruments in groundwater recharge, and they serve as corridors for fish and wildlife migration. The biological habitat in the immediate vicinity of a stream is called a riparian zone. Given the status of the ongoing Holocene extinction, streams play an important corridor role in connecting fragmented habitats and thus in conserving biodiversity. The study of streams and waterways in general involves many branches of inter-disciplinary natural science and engineering, including hydrology, fluvial geomorphology, aquatic ecology, fish biology, riparian ecology and others.
Ecosystems[edit]



Loch Lomond in Scotland forms a relatively isolated ecosystem. The fish community of this lake has remained unchanged over a very long period of time.[38]


Lush green Aravalli Mountain Range in the Desert country-Rajasthan, India. A wonder how such greenery can exist in hot Rajasthan, a place well known for its Thar Desert


An aerial view of a human ecosystem. Pictured is the city of Chicago
Main articles: Ecology and Ecosystem
Ecosystems are composed of a variety of abiotic and biotic components that function in an interrelated way.[39] The structure and composition is determined by various environmental factors that are interrelated. Variations of these factors will initiate dynamic modifications to the ecosystem. Some of the more important components are: soil, atmosphere, radiation from the sun, water, and living organisms.
Central to the ecosystem concept is the idea that living organisms interact with every other element in their local environment. Eugene Odum, a founder of ecology, stated: "Any unit that includes all of the organisms (ie: the "community") in a given area interacting with the physical environment so that a flow of energy leads to clearly defined trophic structure, biotic diversity, and material cycles (i.e.: exchange of materials between living and nonliving parts) within the system is an ecosystem."[40] Within the ecosystem, species are connected and dependent upon one another in the food chain, and exchange energy and matter between themselves as well as with their environment.[41] The human ecosystem concept is grounded in the deconstruction of the human/nature dichotomy and the premise that all species are ecologically integrated with each other, as well as with the abiotic constituents of their biotope.[citation needed]
A smaller unit of size is called a microecosystem. For example, a microsystem can be a stone and all the life under it. A macroecosystem might involve a whole ecoregion, with its drainage basin.[42]
Wilderness[edit]


Old growth European Beech forest in Biogradska Gora National Park, Montenegro.
Main article: Wilderness
Wilderness is generally defined as areas that have not been significantly modified by human activity. The WILD Foundation goes into more detail, defining wilderness as: "The most intact, undisturbed wild natural areas left on our planet – those last truly wild places that humans do not control and have not developed with roads, pipelines or other industrial infrastructure." Wilderness areas can be found in preserves, estates, farms, conservation preserves, ranches, national forests, national parks and even in urban areas along rivers, gulches or otherwise undeveloped areas. Wilderness areas and protected parks are considered important for the survival of certain species, ecological studies, conservation, solitude, and recreation. Some nature writers believe wilderness areas are vital for the human spirit and creativity,[43] and some Ecologists consider wilderness areas to be an integral part of the planet's self-sustaining natural ecosystem (the biosphere). They may also preserve historic genetic traits and that they provide habitat for wild flora and fauna that may be difficult to recreate in zoos, arboretums or laboratories.
Life[edit]



Female mallard and ducklings – reproduction is essential for continuing life
Main articles: Life, Biology, and Biosphere
Although there is no universal agreement on the definition of life, scientists generally accept that the biological manifestation of life is characterized by organization, metabolism, growth, adaptation, response to stimuli and reproduction.[44] Life may also be said to be simply the characteristic state of organisms.
Properties common to terrestrial organisms (plants, animals, fungi, protists, archaea and bacteria) are that they are cellular, carbon-and-water-based with complex organization, having a metabolism, a capacity to grow, respond to stimuli, and reproduce. An entity with these properties is generally considered life. However, not every definition of life considers all of these properties to be essential. Human-made analogs of life may also be considered to be life.
The biosphere is the part of Earth's outer shell – including land, surface rocks, water, air and the atmosphere – within which life occurs, and which biotic processes in turn alter or transform. From the broadest geophysiological point of view, the biosphere is the global ecological system integrating all living beings and their relationships, including their interaction with the elements of the lithosphere (rocks), hydrosphere (water), and atmosphere (air). Currently the entire Earth contains over 75 billion tons (150 trillion pounds or about 6.8×1013 kilograms) of biomass (life), which lives within various environments within the biosphere.[45]
Over nine-tenths of the total biomass on Earth is plant life, on which animal life depends very heavily for its existence.[46] More than 2 million species of plant and animal life have been identified to date,[47] and estimates of the actual number of existing species range from several million to well over 50 million.[48][49][50] The number of individual species of life is constantly in some degree of flux, with new species appearing and others ceasing to exist on a continual basis.[51][52] The total number of species is presently in rapid decline.[53][54][55]
Evolution[edit]


An area of the Amazon Rainforest shared between Colombia and Brazil. The tropical rainforests of South America contain the largest diversity of species on Earth.[56][57]
Main article: Evolution
Life is only known to exist on the planet Earth.(cf Astrobiology) The origin of life is still a poorly understood process, but it is thought to have occurred about 3.9 to 3.5 billion years ago during the hadean or archean eons on a primordial earth that had a substantially different environment than is found at present.[58] These life forms possessed the basic traits of self-replication and inheritable traits. Once life had appeared, the process of evolution by natural selection resulted in the development of ever-more diverse life forms.
Species that were unable to adapt to the changing environment and competition from other life forms became extinct. However, the fossil record retains evidence of many of these older species. Current fossil and DNA evidence shows that all existing species can trace a continual ancestry back to the first primitive life forms.[58]
The advent of photosynthesis in very basic forms of plant life worldwide allowed the sun's energy to be harvested to create conditions allowing for more complex life.[citation needed] The resultant oxygen accumulated in the atmosphere and gave rise to the ozone layer. The incorporation of smaller cells within larger ones resulted in the development of yet more complex cells called eukaryotes.[59] Cells within colonies became increasingly specialized, resulting in true multicellular organisms. With the ozone layer absorbing harmful ultraviolet radiation, life colonized the surface of Earth.
Microbes[edit]


A microscopic mite Lorryia formosa.
Main article: Microbe
The first form of life to develop on the Earth were microbes, and they remained the only form of life on the planet until about a billion years ago when multi-cellular organisms began to appear.[60] Microorganisms are single-celled organisms that are generally microscopic, and smaller than the human eye can see. They include Bacteria, Fungi, Archaea and Protista.
These life forms are found in almost every location on the Earth where there is liquid water, including the interior of rocks within the planet.[61] Their reproduction is both rapid and profuse. The combination of a high mutation rate and a horizontal gene transfer[62] ability makes them highly adaptable, and able to survive in new environments, including outer space.[63] They form an essential part of the planetary ecosystem. However some microorganisms are pathogenic and can post health risk to other organisms.
Plants, animals and microbes[edit]
Main articles: Plant and Animal


A selection of diverse plant species


A selection of diverse animal species
Originally Aristotle divided all living things between plants, which generally do not move fast enough for humans to notice, and animals. In Linnaeus' system, these became the kingdoms Vegetabilia (later Plantae) and Animalia. Since then, it has become clear that the Plantae as originally defined included several unrelated groups, and the fungi and several groups of algae were removed to new kingdoms. However, these are still often considered plants in many contexts. Bacterial life is sometimes included in flora,[64][65] and some classifications use the term bacterial flora separately from plant flora.
Among the many ways of classifying plants are by regional floras, which, depending on the purpose of study, can also include fossil flora, remnants
of plant life from a previous era. People in many regions and countries take great pride in their individual arrays of characteristic flora, which can vary widely across the globe due to differences in climate and terrain.
Regional floras commonly are divided into categories such as native flora and agricultural and garden flora, the lastly mentioned of which are intentionally grown and cultivated. Some types of "native flora" actually have been introduced centuries ago by people migrating from one region or continent to another, and become an integral part of the native, or natural flora of the place to which they were introduced. This is an example of how human interaction with nature can blur the boundary of what is considered nature.
Another category of plant has historically been carved out for weeds. Though the term has fallen into disfavor among botanists as a formal way to categorize "useless" plants, the informal use of the word "weeds" to describe those plants that are deemed worthy of elimination is illustrative of the general tendency of people and societies to seek to alter or shape the course of nature. Similarly, animals are often categorized in ways such as domestic, farm animals, wild animals, pests, etc. according to their relationship to human life.
Animals as a category have several characteristics that generally set them apart from other living things. Animals are eukaryotic and usually multicellular (although see Myxozoa), which separates them from bacteria, archaea and most protists. They are heterotrophic, generally digesting food in an internal chamber, which separates them from plants and algae. They are also distinguished from plants, algae, and fungi by lacking cell walls.
With a few exceptions, most notably the sponges (Phylum Porifera), animals have bodies differentiated into separate tissues.[citation needed] These include muscles, which are able to contract and control locomotion, and a nervous system, which sends and processes signals. There is also typically an internal digestive chamber. The eukaryotic cells possessed by all animals are surrounded by a characteristic extracellular matrix composed of collagen and elastic glycoproteins. This may be calcified to form structures like shells, bones, and spicules, a framework upon which cells can move about and be reorganized during development and maturation, and which supports the complex anatomy required for mobility.
Human interrelationship[edit]



Despite their natural beauty, the secluded valleys along the Na Pali Coast in Hawaii are heavily modified by introduced invasive species such as She-oak.


Sochi dendrarium is an example of confluence of "natural" and a "made" environment
Although humans currently comprise only a minuscule proportion of the total living biomass on Earth, the human effect on nature is disproportionately large. Because of the extent of human influence, the boundaries between what humans regard as nature and "made environments" is not clear cut except at the extremes. Even at the extremes, the amount of natural environment that is free of discernible human influence is presently diminishing at an increasingly rapid pace.
The development of technology by the human race has allowed the greater exploitation of natural resources and has helped to alleviate some of the risk from natural hazards. In spite of this progress, however, the fate of human civilization remains closely linked to changes in the environment. There exists a highly complex feedback loop between the use of advanced technology and changes to the environment that are only slowly becoming understood.[66] Man-made threats to the Earth's natural environment include pollution, deforestation, and disasters such as oil spills. Humans have contributed to the extinction of many plants and animals.
Humans employ nature for both leisure and economic activities. The acquisition of natural resources for industrial use remains the primary component of the world's economic system.[citation needed] Some activities, such as hunting and fishing, are used for both sustenance and leisure, often by different people. Agriculture was first adopted around the 9th millennium BCE. Ranging from food production to energy, nature influences economic wealth.
Although early humans gathered uncultivated plant materials for food and employed the medicinal properties of vegetation for healing,[67] most modern human use of plants is through agriculture. The clearance of large tracts of land for crop growth has led to a significant reduction in the amount available of forestation and wetlands, resulting in the loss of habitat for many plant and animal species as well as increased erosion.[68]
Aesthetics and beauty[edit]


Pinguicula grandiflora, commonly known as a Butterwort
Beauty in nature has historically been a prevalent theme in art and books, filling large sections of libraries and bookstores. That nature has been depicted and celebrated by so much art, photography, poetry and other literature shows the strength with which many people associate nature and beauty. Reasons why this association exists, and what the association consists of, is studied by the branch of philosophy called aesthetics. Beyond certain basic characteristics that many philosophers agree about to explain what is seen as beautiful, the opinions are virtually endless.[69] Nature and wildness have been important subjects in various eras of world history. An early tradition of landscape art began in China during the Tang Dynasty (618–907). The tradition of representing nature as it is became one of the aims of Chinese painting and was a significant influence in Asian art.
Although natural wonders are celebrated in the Psalms and the Book of Job, wilderness portrayals in art became more prevalent in the 1800s, especially in the works of the Romantic movement. British artists John Constable and J. M. W. Turner turned their attention to capturing the beauty of the natural world in their paintings. Before that, paintings had been primarily of religious scenes or of human beings. William Wordsworth's poetry described the wonder of the natural world, which had formerly been viewed as a threatening place. Increasingly the valuing of nature became an aspect of Western culture.[70] This artistic movement also coincided with the Transcendentalist movement in the Western world. A common classical idea of beautiful art involves the word mimesis, the imitation of nature. Also in the realm of ideas about beauty in nature is that the perfect is implied through perfect mathematical forms and more generally by patterns in nature. As David Rothenburg writes, "The beautiful is the root of science and the goal of art, the highest possibility that humanity can ever hope to see".[71]:281
Matter and energy[edit]



The first few hydrogen atom electron orbitals shown as cross-sections with color-coded probability density
Main articles: Matter and Energy
Some fields of science see nature as matter in motion, obeying certain laws of nature which science seeks to understand. For this reason the most fundamental science is generally understood to be "physics" – the name for which is still recognizable as meaning that it is the study of nature.
Matter is commonly defined as the substance of which physical objects are composed. It constitutes the observable universe. The visible components of the universe are now believed to compose only 4.9 percent of the total mass. The remainder is believed to consist of 26.8 percent cold dark matter and 68.3 percent dark energy.[72] The exact nature of these components is still unknown and is currently under intensive investigation by physicists.
The behavior of matter and energy throughout the observable universe appears to follow well-defined physical laws. These laws have been employed to produce cosmological models that successfully explain the structure and the evolution of the universe we can observe. The mathematical expressions of the laws of physics employ a set of twenty physical constants[73] that appear to be static across the observable universe.[74] The values of these constants have been carefully measured, but the reason for their specific values remains a mystery.
Beyond Earth[edit]

Planets and dwarf planets of the Solar System (Sizes to scale, distances not to scale)
tellation Coma Berenices about 56,000 light years in diameter and approximately 60 million light years from Earth
Main articles: Outer space, Universe, and Extraterrestrial life
Outer space, also simply called space, refers to the relatively empty regions of the universe outside the atmospheres of celestial bodies. Outer space is used to distinguish it from airspace (and terrestrial locations). There is no discrete boundary between the Earth's atmosphere and space, as the atmosphere gradually attenuates with increasing altitude. Outer space within the Solar System is called interplanetary space, which passes over into interstellar space at what is known as the heliopause.
Outer space is sparsely filled with several dozen types of organic molecules discovered to date by microwave spectroscopy, blackbody radiation left over from the big bang and the origin of the universe, and cosmic rays, which include ionized atomic nuclei and various subatomic particles. There is also some gas, plasma and dust, and small meteors. Additionally, there are signs of human life in outer space today, such as material left over from previous manned and unmanned launches which are a potential hazard to spacecraft. Some of this debris re-enters the atmosphere periodically.
Although the planet Earth is currently the only known body within the solar system to support life, current evidence suggests that in the distant past the planet Mars possessed bodies of liquid water on the surface.[75] For a brief period in Mars' history, it may have also been capable of forming life. At present though, most of the water remaining on Mars is frozen. If life exists at all on Mars, it is most likely to be located underground where liquid water can still exist.[76]
Conditions on the other terrestrial planets, Mercury and Venus, appear to be too harsh to support life as we know it.[citation needed] But it has been conjectured that Europa, the fourth-largest moon of Jupiter, may possess a sub-surface ocean of liquid water and could potentially host life.[77]
Recently, the team of Stéphane Udry have discovered a new planet named Gliese 581 g, which is an extrasolar planet orbiting the red dwarf star Gliese 581.[citation needed] Gliese 581 g appears to lie in the habitable zone of space surrounding the star, and therefore could possibly host life as we know it.

 Relaxing the park with the trees and the green grass feels good
