And that means you do NOT have absolute justification for your source of
authority -- which means you do NOT have absolute certainty.

This is easy to demonstrate.  Let's go back to our shorthand method of doing
epistemology "how do you know?"  Imagine a hypothetical discussion

 A The Bible is a source of absolute truth.

 B How do you know?

 A I studied history and the Bible and religious writings and church
    teachings and came to this conclusion.

 B How do you know you studied history correctly?

 A Well, I double-checked everything.

 B How do you know you double-checked correctly?

 A Well, I compared my answers with some smart people and we agreed.

 B Just because some smart guy believes something that doesn't mean it is
    true.  How do you know THEY studied it correctly?

 A ...

And, as you see, B will eventually get A to the point where he has to say "I
can't prove that there are no mistakes" -- and as long as you may have made a
mistake, then you cannot be ABSOLUTELY certain.

There is no way out of the loop.


This is where the "arrogance of Christians" arises many people believe
that their own personal research can give them absolute certainty about the
doctrines of Christianity -- they are implicitly claiming that they are
infallible, and that there is no possibility of mistake.

Claiming that you CANNOT have made a mistake, and that your thinking has led
you to a flawless conclusion, is pretty arrogant.

 *

People who want to see this argument explained in great detail should try to
find _The Infallibility of the Church_, by George Salmon.  He is attacking
the idea that the Pope can be knowably infallible (and he does so very well),
but the general argument applies equally well to the idea that the Bible is
knowably Inerrant.
vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (Virgilio (Dean) B. Velasco Jr.) writes
 
 Are all truths also absolutes?
 Is all of scripture truths (and therefore absolutes)?
 
 If the answer to either of these questions is no, then perhaps you can 
 explain to me how you determine which parts of Scripture are truths, and
 which truths are absolutes.  
 
 The answer to both questions is yes.

Perhaps we have different definitions of absolute then.  To me,
an absolute is something that is constant across time, culture,
situations, etc.  True in every instance possible.  Do you agree
with this definition?  I think you do

 Similarly, all truth is absolute.  Indeed, a non-absolute truth is a 
 contradiction in terms.  When is something absolute?  When it is always
 true.  Obviously, if a "truth" is not always "true" then we have a
 contradiction in terms.  

A simple example
In the New Testament (sorry I don't have a Bible at work, and can't
provide a reference), women are instructed to be silent and cover
their heads in church.  Now, this is scripture.  By your definition, 
this is truth and therefore absolute.  
Do women in your church speak?  Do they cover their heads?  If all 
scripture is absolute truth, it seems to me that women speaking in and 
coming to church with bare heads should be intolerable to evangelicals.  
Yet, clearly, women do speak in evangelical churches and come with bare 
heads.  (At least this was the case in the evangelical churches I grew 
up in.)
Evangelicals are clearly not taking this particular part of scripture 
to be absolute truth.  (And there are plenty of other examples.)
Can you reconcile this?
 Many people claim that there are no absolutes in the world.  Such a
 statement is terribly self-contradictory.  Let me put it to you this
 way.  If there are no absolutes, shouldn't we conclude that the statement,
 "There are no absolutes" is not absolutely true?  Obviously, we have a
 contradiction here.
I don't claim that there are *no* absolutes.  I think there are very
few, though, and determining absolutes is difficult.
 This is just one of the reasons why Christians defy the world by claiming
 that there are indeed absolutes in the universe.
 There is hardly consensus, even in evangelical 
 Christianity (not to mention the rest of Christianity) regarding 
 Biblical interpretation.
 So?  People sometimes disagree about what is true. This does not negate 
 the fact, however, that there are still absolutes in the universe.  
But you are claiming that all of Scripture is absolute.  How can you
determine absolutes derived from Scripture when you can't agree how
to interpret the Scripture?  
It's very difficult to see how you can claim something which is based 
on your own *interpretation* is absolute.  Do you deny that your own
background, education, prejudices, etc. come into play when you read the 
Bible, and determine how to interpret a passsage?  Do you deny that 
you in fact interpret?
According to what I have read on Biblical idioms, speaking "in X's
name" is a standard Aramaic/Hebrew legal idiom for what we today
would call Power of Attorney.  A person from Jesus' culture authorized
to conduct business "in John's name" had full authority over John's
financial affairs, but was held under a solemn fiduciary obligation to
work only for John's benefit and consonant with John's wishes.  It was
not required for the steward to preface each business transaction with
"in John's name"; it was sufficient to have valid power of attorney
and be operating in good faith. (Note the overlap here between legal
and religious definitions of "faith".)
With this cultural background, praying "in Jesus' name" does not
mandate a particular verbal formula; rather it requires that the
petitioner be operating faithfully and consciously within an analogous
"fiduciary" relationship with Jesus and for the purposes of His
Kingdom.  The message of "praying in Jesus' name" is thus closely
aligned with the parable of the talents and other passages about God's
delegation of Kingdom business to his stewards, both resources and
responsibilities.  This idea of praying "in Jesus' name" is not only
present but prominent in the Lord's Prayer, although the verbal
forumula is absent.
The act of praying the words "In Jesus' Name" may be beneficial if
they cause us to clarify the relationship of our requests to the
advancement of God's Kingdom.  For that reason, I'm not quite ready
to say that the praying the formula is without meaning.
Prayers to God for other purposes (desperation, anger, thanksgiving,
etc.) don't seem to be in this category at all, whether uttered by
Christian or non-Christian, whether B.C. or A.D. (that's B.C.E. or
C.E. for you P.C. -).  I don't see anything in Christ's words to
contradict the idea that God deals with all prayers according to His
omniscience and grace.
I would like to see Christians devote a bit less effort to _bashing_
paganism and more to figuring out how to present the Gospel to pagans.

Christ is the answer; the pagans have a lot of the right questions.
1) The human being is an _animal_ who has, due to his/her advanced
mental facilities, developed religious as a satisfiable solution to
explain the unexplainable. [...]

	Hmmm.  There are other animals on this planet with advanced
	mental facilities which have not developed "religion" as a
	satisfactory explaination for the unexplained.  Why is this so?

	Further, it appears that only humans have a "need" to explain the
	unexplained.  Why is this so?  The other animals on this planet,
	including those with advanced mental facilities, seem perfectly
	content in their ignorance.

	I'd like to point out that your presuppositions scream out at me
	from your unsupported statement.  They are 1) humans are animal
	*only*; 2) religion exists as a crutch so that the unexplained need
	not be researched; 3) religion was "made up" by humans to address a
	perceived need; 4) the biological aspect of humans is deified (that
	is, all aspects of human life can be categorized in a hierarchical
	structure with biology at the apex).

	Needless to say, I disagree with your strong opinion #1 and the
	underlying presuppositions.

Christianity is an infectious cult.  The reasons it flourishes are 
because 1) it gives people without hope or driven purpose in life
a safety blanked to hide behind.  "Oh wow..all i have to do is 
follow this christian moral standard and I get eternal happiness."
For all of you "found jeezus" , how many of you were "on the brink?"

	I disagree that Christianity is "an infectious cult".  It has
	certainly shown itself to be persistent as a belief system, in
	spite of various persecutions throughout the past two millenia.
	That it continues to persevere does not demonstrate that it is
	"infectious" in a derrogatory sense; it may be that it provides
	a workable system for its adherents (and I would argue that this
	is the case).

	I disagree that Christianity is "a safety blanket" which supplants
	hope and purpose.  Rather, it points an individual to the one
	Source of hope and purpose.  There is nothing hidden about a
	Christian's source for hope and purpose.  Of what usefulness to
	you is the distinction between internally motivated hope and purpose
	and externally given hope and purpose?  Is the (apparent) loss of
	control over one's own life the problem or is it something else?

	Finally, one does not appropriate "eternal happiness" by following
	Christian moral standards.  Indeed, the sole reason for the existance
	of Christianity is *because* standards are inadequate to save people
	from their imperfections.  Moral standards are merely guides to the
	Christian; the real power to moral living is given to the Christian
	in the Person of God's Spirit.

	Heaven is one of two final states that
	Christian doctrine postulates.  However, Christians are generally
	not motivated to live according to Christian moral standards by this
	promised future reward; rather, they are motivated by the perceived
	benefits to them in the here-and-now.

but i digress...   The other reason christianity flourishes is its
infectious nature.  A best friend of mine breifly entered a christian
group and within months, they set ministry guidelines for him which
basicaly said this --Priority #1 Spread the Word.

	Many Christian organizations are concerned with evangelism as a
	priority, and rightly so (for it was Jesus Himself who gave this
	as a priority for His followers).  However, it is not the penultimate
	priority as evangelism is normally understood (i.e. preach the word,
	convert at nearly any cost, repeat with new convert ad infinitum).
	Rather, such evangelism is generally best done through respecting
	the opinions of others while *demonstrating* the very real benefits
	of a Christian lifestyle.  This demonstration should be so powerful
	that it compels the non-Christian to seek out the Christian to ask
	"Why?"  Needless to say, such a demonstration is not easily accom-
	plished (it takes a radical committment to the person of Jesus), it
	does not happen quickly (so perseverance on the part of the Christian
	is required), and it cannot occur where no personal bonds of
	friendship exist (it is ineffective with strangers who cannot
	evaluate the demonstration over time, and it is easy to alienate or
	harm others if the sole purpose of being a "friend" is to gain a
	conversion).

	As a long-time Christian (nearly 20 years), I view with some skep-
	ticism *all* evangelism programs which incorporate a "hurry-up"
	attitude.  Pressured conversions may ultimately be worse than no
	conversion at all (because the pressured convert realizes s/he was
	coerced and disavows Christianity when they would have been open
	to it in the future had they not been taken advantage of now).
	The Bible states that it is the very Spirit of God which brings
	conviction of wrong-doing to people.  I am content to do my part
	(witness) and let the Spirit do the rest.

We are _just_ animals.  We need sleep, food, and we reproduce.  And we
die.      

	We are far more than animals.  We sleep, eat, reproduce, and die
	just as other animals do - true.  But, we are also capable of more
	than this.  If your personal vision of humanity (or of yourself) is
	so limited, I can only hope and pray ;-) that you will someday find
	a more expansive view.

	(For reflection, what animals have the wide variety of performing
	arts that humans do?  How is it that humans can learn the language
	of other humans (or animals) but that other animals cannot do so?
	How is it that humans can organize themselves in various social
	structures whereas other animals have only one structure?)

Religion (especially Christianity) is nothing more than a DRUG.

	Blatant assertion.  Christianity is not physically addictive.
	Christianity is not psychologically addictive.  Christianity is not
	a *thing* which one snorts/ingests/shoots-up; it is a relationship
	with a living being.  You might as validly characterize any close-
	knit relationship with this appelation.

Some people use drugs as an escape from reality.  Christians inject
themselves with jeezus and live with that high. 

	There are "Jesus freaks" who let the emotional aspects of worship
	and Christian living gain (and retain) the upper hand.  Even so,
	this does not by itself invalidate the foundation from which these
	things flow.

It pities me how many millions of lives have been lost in religious
wars, of which Christianity has had no small part.

	Guilty by association?  That "christianity" which forces itself
	upon another is not Christianity at all.

When Christians see a "non-believer", they say that person is blind
to the truth, but they cannot realize that it is _they_ who live
with this mask of fakeness each day.  Jesus was just prophet #37696 
who happened to have a large influence because at that time the Romans
were (circa 69ad) dispersing the Jewish population and communities
needed some sort of cohesive element to keep them strong in that time
of dire need.

	You appear to have an amazing certainty about what really happened
	2000 years ago.  How did you come by it?

	I cannot accept your conclusion that Jesus' influence was a sole
	result of the Roman sack of Jerusalem in 70AD.  He was 30+ years
	gone by this time.  It strains the bounds of credulity to assert
	that nothing about Jesus' life was noteworthy _until_ the sack.

I must go.  These are but a few of my thoughts on Christianity.

	Christianity is having a relationship with Jesus Christ Himself.
	What do you know of Him?

   The real problem was
   that Christians were pacifist and preached there was only one god.  When the
   state operates by a system of divinitation of the emperor -  monotheism 
   becomes a capital offense.  The Jews were able to get exemption from this,
   and were also not evangelistic.

I disagree with your claim that Jews were not evangelistic (except in
the narrow sense of the word).  Jewish proselytism was widespread.
There are numerous accounts of Jewish proselytism, both in the New
Testament and in Roman and Greek documents of the day.
The concept of God as a teacher is indeed interesting. Does He grade on
a curve, does He cheat? That is interesting. Not to mention thought
provoking. My own concept is that He is a Father and we are His
children. In that He loves us, with a love that we can never understand
until we are with Him. The Bible says that He looks on the heart as the
final measure. From that perspective, in a grading context, the heart is
the final test.
Specifically, most Christians would agree that there is only one Heaven
and one Hell. From that perspective, it is Heaven or Hell. You either go
to one or the other. The "grading" on a pass/fail basis is done by God
the Father with intervention by Jesus the Son. Not by others. For only
God sees the heart. The Bible says of the heart, "...who can know it." I
would say there has always been, and always be, an unchanging method.
That is what makes a relationship with Christ so secure. In an uncertain
and ever changing landscape He is always the same. Yesterday, today and
tomorrow. Concerning whether or not our childhoods are considerd as part
of the test, my own conviction is no. Were that the case I certainly
wouldn't be going to Heaven. The Bible speaks very plainly about the
love and care Jesus had for and about children. The reality is that we
are all children. Some of us just have bigger bodies and grey hair. But
the Father, our Father is always there. Like most Fathers He wants only
the best for His own. There maybe decipline, but there is more love.
It's sometimes looks like Christianity is a test, to see who makes it
and who doesn't. Those who do passHeaven, and those who don't go to the
other place. But it is really much more than that...
There are few experts. Most of us are just travelers looking for the
light and the way Home. Praying that we can bring others with us.
From dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (Darius_Lecointe)
Subject Re Eternity of Hell (was Re Hell)
  I'm inclined to read descriptions such as the lake of fire as 
  indicating annihilation. However that's a minority view.
 ...
  It's my personal view, but the only denominations I know of that hold 
  it officially are the JW's and SDA's.
 
 I can't find the reference right now, but didn't C.S.Lewis speculate 
 somewhere that hell might be "the state of once having been a human 
 soul"?
Why is it that we have this notion that God takes some sort of pleasure
from punishing people?  The purpose of hell is to destroy the devil and
his angels.
To the earlier poster who tried to support the eternal hell theory with
the fact that the fallen angels were not destroyed, remember the Bible
teaches that God has reserved them until the day of judgement.  Their
judgement is soon to come.
Let me suggest this.  Maybe those who believe in the eternal hell theory
should provide all the biblical evidence they can find for it.  Stay away
from human theories, and only take into account references in the bible.
   I don't think it's possible to convince atheists of the validity of 
 Christianity through argument.  We have to help foster faith and an
 understanding of God.  I could be wrong--are there any former atheists here
 who were led to Christianity by argument?
Hope you all had a Blessed Easter. I have a document which I believe
refutes the notion that the SSPX (Society of Saint Pius X) is in
schism, or that there has been any legitimate excommunication. If
anyone is interested in reading the truth about this matter please
email me and I'll send them the document via email. Its 26 pages long,
so I wont be posting it on the news group.
Its titled
    NEITHER SCHISMATIC NOR EXCOMMUNICATED

    This article  was  originally  an  English	translation,  by  the
    Society  of  Saint	Pius  X  in  Ireland, from the French Journal
    'Courrier de Rome'.  The French  article,  in  its	turn,  was  a
    translation  from  the  Italian of the Roman Newsletter 'Si Si No
    No'.

    This booklet contains the transcription, with some minor editing,
    of	the  Irish  article, and was transcribed and produced by John
    Clay, Townsville, Queensland, Australia.

may the road rise to meet you
may the wind be always at your back
may the sun shine warm upon your face, 
the rains fall soft upon your fields,
and until we meet again,
may God hold you in the palm of his hand.
       The objection naturally is in the way in which you phrase it. 
Easter (or Eashtar or Ishtar or Ishtarti or other spellings) is the pagan
whore goddess of fertility.  Therefore, your question to me is "what is
the objection to celebration of the pagan whore goddess?"  When phrased
that way I suspect (or at least I would HOPE) that it becomes immeadiately
apparent what my objection to "celebrating" her would be.
 
  It is celebration of the resurrection of Jesus.
 
      No, you are thinking perhaps of "Ressurection Sunday" I think. 
(Though I'm not too crazy about the word "Sunday", but I certainly like
this phrasing much better than envoking the name of the whore goddess.)
     For that matter, stay Biblical and call it Omar Rasheet (The Feast of
First Fruits).  Torah commands that this be observed on the day following
the Sabbath of Passover week.  (Sunday by any other name in modern
parlance.)  Why is there so much objection to observing the Resurrection
on the 1st day of the week on which it actually occured?  Why jump it all
over the calendar the way Easter does?  Why not just go with the Sunday
following Passover the way the Bible has it?  Why seek after unbiblical
methods?
 
  I don't recall a command in Scripture for us to celebrate
  the resurrection, but it is the sole and only reason that
  we are Christians--how could we not celebrate it?
 
      So what does this question have to do with Easter (the whore
goddess)?  I am all for celebrating the Resurrection.  Just keep that
whore out of the discussion.
 
  If it is only the name which is a problem, I suggest that if
  we are too concerned about etymology, there are a lot of
  words we are going to have to drop.  (As an aside, some
  terminally PC people here in Ottawa want dictionaries to be
  altered so that there are no negative definitions associated
  with the word _black_, so as not to offend people of colour.
  As a short person, I hope they will also remove the definition
  "curt or surly" associated with my physical description.)
 
       Fine by me.  And while we are at it, the left-handed people are
both "sinister" and "gauche" so we probably will have some objections from
that quarter as well.
 
  In Quebec French, the word for the celebration of the
  resurrection is "Pa^ques"--this is etymologically related
  to Pesach (Passover) and the pascal lamb.  So is the
  French Canadian (mostly Roman Catholic) celebration better
  because it uses the right name?
 
      Yes, that sounds much better to me.  Is there anyone out there would
thinks that phrasing sounds worse?
 
  So from this I infer that there are different rules for
  Christians of Jewish descent?  What happened to "there is
  neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free, male nor female, for
  all are one in Christ Jesus"?
Were there different rules upon the slave than upon
Philemon?  How about male and female?  Are there different "rules" that
apply to them as well?  Or if there is no more "male and female" can Adam
and Steve get married to each other in your congregation?  Yes, there are
differences in form and function.  But the way we come to Salvation in
Messiah remains the same no matter what our position in life.
seems repetitive, but this particular point is one that I believe is
new -- the objection is not to having a holiday but to its name.
I'd like to suggest that people think very carefully about this
argument.  Words often change their meaning over time.  The days of
the week are of course originally based on pagan gods.  Some
Christians prefer to refer to "first day", "second day", etc.  However
the majority of Christians have not been persuaded.  The question
seems to be whether it makes any difference what the dictionary shows
as the derivation of a word, if what people mean by it and think when
they use it is different.
Indeed I'd like to suggest that postings like this could themselves be
dangerous.  Suppose people in general use Easter to mean the
celebration of Christ's resurrection.  Postings trying to convince
them that they really mean a celebration in honor of some godess run
the risk of creating exactly the situation that they claim to oppose.
They are doing their best to *create* a linkage in people's minds
between their celebration and the pagan goddess.  It's not clear that
this is a healthy thing.
I just about closed this once before.  I'm now doing so for real, after
Several recent posts have identified the English word 'Easter' with
the Babylonian goddess 'Ishtar'.
'Easter' is a pagan word all right, but it has nothing to do with Ishtar.
If 'Easter' and 'Ishtar' were related, their history would show it.
But in Old English, Easter was 'Eostre', cognate with English 'East'
and German 'Ost'.   The reconstructed Proto-Germanic form is 'Austron'.
Not until after 1400 did 'Easter' have a high front vowel like 'Ishtar'.
Clearly, the two words have quite separate origins.
There may be neo-pagans who worship Ishtar at Easter, but if so, they
are making either a mistake of etymology, or a deliberate play on words.
       So what does this question have to do with Easter (the whore
 goddess)?  I am all for celebrating the Resurrection.  Just keep that
 whore out of the discussion.
  
Your obsession with the term "whore" clouds your argument.  "Whore" is
a value judgement, not a descriptive term.
Overall, this argument is an illustration of the "etymological fallacy"
(see J.P. Louw _Semantics of NT Greek_).  That is the idea that the true
meaning of a word lies in its origins and linguistic form.  In fact, our
own experience demonstrates that the meaning of a word is bound up with
how it is _used_, not where it came from.  Very few modern people would
make any connection whatsoever between "Easter" and "Ishtar."  If Daniel
Seagard does, then for him it has that meaning.  But that is a highly
idiosyncratic "meaning," and not one that needs much refutation.
How is a scriptural Levitical priesthood resumed?  Are there any Jews who 
can legitimately prove their Levite bloodline?
Too much argument on non-issues !
I'm Roman Catholic and it seems to me that people
celebrate Easter and Christmas for itself rather
than how it relates to Jesus. I don't really
care about some diety. If people have some other
definition of Easter, then that's their business.
Don't let it interfere with my Easter.
  So from this I infer that there are different rules for
  Christians of Jewish descent?  What happened to "there is
  neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free, male nor female, for
  all are one in Christ Jesus"?

I would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become "married" in God's eyes?  Some say that if the two have
publically announced their plans to marry, have made their vows to God, and
are unswervingly committed to one another (I realize this is a subjective
qualifier) they are married/joined in God's sight.

 The period of time that has elapsed from the event growing larger
does not increase the odds that a hoax would be discovered.  In fact
the longer a hoax is perpetuated the stronger it becomes.

Finally

There is no proof of the resurrection of Christ, except in our spirits
communion with his, and the Father's.  It is a matter of FAITH, belief
without logical proof.  Incedently one of the largest stumbling blocks for
rational western man, myself included.

I hope that this is taken in the spirit it was intended and not as a 
rejection of the resurrection's occurance.  I beleive, but I wanted to point 

Are all truths also absolutes?
Is all of scripture truths (and therefore absolutes)?

If the answer to either of these questions is no, then perhaps you can 
explain to me how you determine which parts of Scripture are truths, and
which truths are absolutes.  
 
 The answer to both questions is yes.
Perhaps we have different definitions of absolute then.  To me,
an absolute is something that is constant across time, culture,
situations, etc.  True in every instance possible.  Do you agree
with this definition?  I think you do
 Similarly, all truth is absolute.  Indeed, a non-absolute truth is a 
 contradiction in terms.  When is something absolute?  When it is always
 true.  Obviously, if a "truth" is not always "true" then we have a
 contradiction in terms.  

Yes, I do agree with your definition.  My use of the term "always" is
rather deceptive, I admit.  
 
A simple example

In the New Testament (sorry I don't have a Bible at work, and can't
provide a reference), women are instructed to be silent and cover
their heads in church.  Now, this is scripture.  By your definition, 
this is truth and therefore absolute.  

Hold it.  I said that all of scripture is true.  However, discerning
exactly what Jesus, Paul and company were trying to say is not always so
easy.  I don't believe that Paul was trying to say that all women should
behave that way.  Rather, he was trying to say that under the circumstances
at the time, the women he was speaking to would best avoid volubility and
cover their heads.  This has to do with maintaining a proper witness toward
others.  Remember that any number of relativistic statements can be derived
from absolutes.  For instance, it is absolutely right for Christians to
strive for peace.  However, this does not rule out trying to maintain world
peace by resorting to violence on occasion.  (Yes, my opinion.)
 
Evangelicals are clearly not taking this particular part of scripture 
to be absolute truth.  (And there are plenty of other examples.)
Can you reconcile this?

Sure.  The Bible preaches absolute truths.  However, exactly what those
truths are is sometimes a matter of confusion.  As I said, the Bible does
preach absolute truths.  Sometimes those fundamental principles are crystal
clear (at least to evangelicals).  Sometimes they are not so clear to
everyone (e.g. should baptism be by full immersion or not, etc).  That is
largely because sometimes, it is not explicitly spelled out whether the writers
are speaking to a particular culture or to Christianity as a whole.  This is 
where scholarship and the study of Biblical contexts comes in.  
 
It's very difficult to see how you can claim something which is based 
on your own *interpretation* is absolute.  

God revealed his Truths to the world, through His Word.  It is utterly 
unavoidable, however, that some people whill come up with alternate 
interpretations.  Practically anything can be misinterpreted, especially
when it comes to matters of right and wrong.  Care to deny that?


-- 
Virgilio "Dean" Velasco Jr, Department of Electrical Eng'g and Applied Physics 
	 CWRU graduate student, roboticist-in-training and Q wannabee
    "Bullwinkle, that man's intimidating a referee!"   |    My boss is a 
   "Not very well.  He doesn't look like one at all!"  |  Jewish carpenter.
From king@ctron.com (John E. King)
Subject Re Eternity of Hell (was Re Hell)

db7n+@andrew.cmu.edu (D. Andrew Byler) writes

And we also know that it is impossible to destroy the Soul.

Hmmm.  Here's food for thought  " ...but rather be in fear of him
who can destroy both soul and body in gehenna."  Math 1028

Jack
From dhawk@netcom.com (David Hawkins)
Subject Need Help with "They came for the Jews" quote

Years ago I grabbed the following from the net - maybe from this
newsgroup.  Does anyone know of a source for whether this is an
accurate quote?   Thanks!  Bartletts leaves out the homosexual lines,
but they were one of the groups the Nazis tried to exterminate.

In Germany, they first came for the communists,
and I didn't speak up because I wasn't a communist.
Then they came for the jews,
and I didn't speak up because I wasn't a jew.
Then they came for the trade unionists,
and I didn't speak up because I wasn't a trade unionist.
Then they came for the homosexuals, and I didn't speak up
because I wasn't a homosexual.
Then they came for the catholics, and I didn't speak up
because I was a protestant.
Then they came for me ---
but by that time there was no one left to speak up.

                                    -- Pastor Martin Neimoller
From johnsd2@rpi.edu (Dan Johnson)
Subject Re "Accepting Jeesus in your heart..."

In article 28388@athos.rutgers.edu, jayne@mmalt.guild.org (Jayne Kulikauskas) writes
gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (Eric Molas) writes

 Firstly, I am an atheist. I am not posting here as an immature flame
 start, but rather to express an opinion to my intended audience.
[deleted] 
 
 We are _just_ animals.  We need sleep, food, and we reproduce.  And we
 die.      

I don't meant to defend Eric Molas- I find it somewhat annoying when
someone pops up on alt.atheism to tell us all about his (usually
atheistic) beliefs, so I can certainly see how Christians might be
annoyed- but I'd like to point out a few things.

I am glad that I am not an atheist.  It seems tragic that some people 
choose a meaningless existence.

"no meaning from God" is not the same as "no meaning". From my (atheistic)
point of view, if you want meaning in your life, you get to go and
get some or make some.

No free gifts of meaning. (I never quite understood how any
God can just "give" your life meaning, actually. If he
says you exists to do or be X, that gives you a purpose
if you care to accept it, but is that the same thing? But
I digress...) 

  How terrible to go on living only 
because one fears death more than life.

This would truely be a miserably existance, which I doubt Eric
endures. Life can be enjoyable, so you can live it because you like
it, or purposefull, so you can live it to get something done. One should
endeavour to make it so, if it is not. Otherwise it would be as you say.
Terrible.

  I feel so sorry for Eric and 
yet any attempts to share my joy in life with him would be considered as 
further evidence of the infectious nature of Christianity.    

Probably true. Remeber he almost certainly sees that particular joy as
an illusion, and does not want it. So maybe it isn't so bad?

As a Christian I am free to be a human person.  I think, love, choose, 
and create.

As an atheist, I am free to be a human person. I think, love, choose,
and create.

 I will live forever with God.

Ah, now here we begin to diverge. I will not live forever
with anyone.

(I don't think you will either, but you are welcome to your
opinion on the matter.)

Christ is not a kind of drug.

I tend to agree with you.

It's my opinion that (unlike drugs) religions are normal
parts of human societies.

I think they have outlived their usefullness, but they
are evidently quite ordinary, normal things that haven't
proved lethal to humanity yet.

 Drugs are a replacement for Christ.
Those who have an empty spot in the God-shaped hole in their hearts must 
do something to ease the pain.

I have heard this claim quite a few times. Does anybody here know
who first came up with the "God-shaped hole" business?

  This is why the most effective 
substance-abuse recovery programs involve meeting peoples' spiritual 
needs.

You might want to provide some evidence next time you make a claim
like this.

Thank you, Eric for your post.  It has helped me to appreciate how much 
God has blessed me.  I hope that you will someday have a more joy-filled 
and abundant life.

I don't know Eric, but I do not think it is wise to assume he has a less
joy-filled and abundant life because he holds certain beliefs.

---
			- Dan Johnson
And God said "Jeeze, this is dull"... and it *WAS* dull. Genesis 00

These opinions probably show what I know.
From mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (Michael Covington)
Subject Clarification Easter

In response to a lot of email I've gotten, I need to clarify my position.

I am not in favor of paganism.

I am not in favor of the Easter Bunny or other non-Christian aspects of
Easter as presently celebrated.  (Incidentally, Easter eggs are not
non-Christian; they are a way of ending the Lenten fast.)

My point was to distinguish between
  (1) intentionally worshipping a pagan deity, and
  (2) doing something which may once have had pagan associations, but
nowadays is not understood or intended as such.

Many people who are doing (2) are being accused of (1).

It would be illogical to claim that one is "really" worshipping a
pagan deity without knowing it.  Worship is a matter of intention.
One cannot worship without knowing that one is doing so.
-- 
-  Michael A. Covington, Associate Research Scientist            *****
-  Artificial Intelligence Programs      mcovingt@ai.uga.edu   *********
-  The University of Georgia              phone 706 542-0358    *  *  *
-  Athens, Georgia 30602-7415 U.S.A.     amateur radio N4TMI   ** *** **  <<
From halat@panther.bears (Jim Halat)
Subject Re Prophetic Warning to New York City

I just started reading the group. I was wondering if someone
could re-post exactly what the Prophetic Warning to NYC was.

Thanks
-jh

[I suggest sending it to him via email with a cc to me.  I'll hold
it in my files in case someone else needs it.  --clh]
From JBF101@psuvm.psu.edu
Subject same-sex marriages

There has been some talk recently of Latin rites from the early Church used to
bless same-sex unions.If anyone has any idea where copies of these rites
exist (in whole or in part), please notify me by e-mail.  (I understand that
similar ceremonies written in Slavonic exist as well.  Let me know where I can
find these.)  It doesn't matter whether the Latin rite is in the original or a
translation.  However, I would prefer to have an English version of the Slavon-
ic rite, if it exists.  Thanks in advance.

Doug Hayes @ PSU

[We've had questions about this in the past.  The only source I know
of is claims by John Boswell in some talks.  He is said to be working
on publication, but as far as I know, nothing is published yet.  I
haven't heard of any other source.  If anyone knows of another source,
please tell us.  But I think we're going to have to wait for Boswell's
publication to appear in order to see what he's really talking about.
--clh]
From wagner@grace.math.uh.edu (David Wagner)
Subject Re Eternity of Hell (was Re Hell)

"Darius"  Darius Lecointe <dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu writes

Darius vic@mmalt.guild.org (Vic Kulikauskas) writes

Darius Let me suggest this.  Maybe those who believe in the eternal
Darius hell theory should provide all the biblical evidence they can
Darius find for it.  Stay away from human theories, and only take
Darius into account references in the bible.

Like most topics, we've been through this one before, but here is
a good start  Matthew 2546

"Then they will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous
to eternal life."

I may post more on this subject when I have more time.  In any
case, it is clear that the fate of the damned is most unpleasant,
and to be avoided.

David Wagner			"Sola Scriptura!"
a confessional Lutheran

[I'd like to suggest that discussions based on single quotations
are a bad way to proceed.  There are passages consistent with
either theory.  The sensible way to proceed is to look at them
all, and see if we can come up with a view that encompasses all
of them.  --clh]
From wquinnan@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (Malcusco)
Subject Re A question that has bee bothering me.

In article <Apr.11.01.02.39.1993.17790@athos.rutgers.edu atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (Cardinal Ximenez) writes

  Religious people are threatened by science because it has been systematically
removing the physical "proofs" of God's existence.  As time goes on we have to
rely more and more on faith and the spiritual world to relate to God becuase
science is removing our props.  I don't think this is a bad thing.

	First of all, I resent your assumption that you know why I
am threatened by science, or even that I am threatened at all,
although I admit the latter.  The reason I am threatened by Science
has nothing to do with my need for proof of my Lord's existence--
God reveals Himself in many ways, including, to some degree,
Science.

	My problem with Science is that often it allows us to
assume we know what is best for ourselves.  God endowed us
with the ability to produce life through sexual relations,
for example, but He did not make that availible to everyone.
Does that mean that if Science can over-ride God's decision
through alterations, that God wills for us to have the power
to decide who should and should not be able to have 
children?  Should men be allowed to have babies, if that
is made possible.

	People have always had the ability to end lives
unnaturally, and soon may have the ability to bring lives
into the world unnaturally.  The closest thing to artificially
created life is artificially created death, and as God
has reserved judgement about when people should die to
Himself, I believe we should rely on God's wisdom about how
people should be brought in to the world.

	This is not to say that I reject all forms of
medical treatment, however.  Treatment that alleviates
pain, or prevents pain from occuring, is perfectly
acceptable, I believe, as it was acceptable for Jesus
to cure the sick.  However, treatment that merely 
prolongs life for no reason, or makes unnecessary 
alterations to the body for mere aesthetic purposes,  
go too far.  Are we not happy with the beauty God
gave us?

	I cannot draw a solid line regarding where I
would approve of Scientific study, and where I would not,
but I will say this  Before one experiments with the
universe to find out all its secrets, one should ask
why they want this knowledge.  Before one alters the body
they have been given, they should ask themseles why their
body is not satisfactory too them as it is.  I cannot
make any general rules that will cover all the cases, but
I will say that each person should pray for guidance
when trying to unravel the mysteries of the universe, and
should cease their unravelling if they have reason to 
believe their search is displeasing to God.

			---Malcusco
From mayne@ds3.scri.fsu.edu (Bill Mayne)
Subject Re Ancient Books

In article <Apr.13.00.09.02.1993.28445@athos.rutgers.edu miner@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu writes
[Any former atheists converted by argument?}
This is an excellent question and I'll be anxious to see if there are
any such cases.  I doubt it.  In the medieval period (esp. 10th-cent.
when Aquinas flourished) argument was a useful tool because everyone
"knew the rules."  Today, when you can't count on people knowing even
the basics of logic or seeing through rhetoric, a good argument is
often indistinguishable from a poor one.

The last sentence is ironic, since so many readers of
soc.religion.christian seem to not be embarrassed by apologists such as
Josh McDowell and C.S. Lewis. The above also expresses a rather odd sense
of history. What makes you think the masses in Aquinas' day, who were
mostly illiterate, knew any more about rhetoric and logic than most people
today? If writings from the period seem elevated consider that only the
cream of the crop, so to speak, could read and write. If everyone in
the medieval period "knew the rules" it was a matter of uncritically
accepting what they were told.

Bill Mayne

[This may be unfair to Lewis.  The most prominent fallacy attributed
to him is the "liar, lunatic, and lord".  As quoted by many
Christians, this is a logical fallacy.  In its original context, it
was not.  --clh]
From fox@graphics.cs.nyu.edu (David Fox)
Subject Re Pantheism & Environmentalism

In article <Apr.13.00.08.04.1993.28376@athos.rutgers.edu mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (Michael Covington) writes

   In article <Apr.12.03.44.17.1993.18833@athos.rutgers.edu heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (Terrance Heath) writes

   	I realize I'm entering this discussion rather late, but I do
   have one question. Wasn't it a Reagan appointee, James Watt, a
   pentacostal christian (I think) who was the secretary of the interior
   who saw no problem with deforestation since we were "living in the
   last days" and ours would be the last generation to see the redwoods
   anyway?

   I heard the same thing, but without confirmation that he actually said it.
   It was just as alarming to us as to you; the Bible says that nobody knows
   when the second coming will take place.

Nor does it say that if you *do* find out when it will happen you
should rape everything in sight just before.
From shellgate!llo@uu4.psi.com (Larry L. Overacker)

Are all truths also absolutes?
Is all of scripture truths (and therefore absolutes)?
Perhaps we have different definitions of absolute then.  To me,
an absolute is something that is constant across time, culture,
situations, etc.  True in every instance possible.  Do you agree
with this definition?  I think you do
 Similarly, all truth is absolute.  Indeed, a non-absolute truth is a 
 contradiction in terms.  When is something absolute?  When it is always
 true.  Obviously, if a "truth" is not always "true" then we have a
 contradiction in terms.  
 It may be that one day man not only can create life but can also
      create man.  Now, I don't see this happening in my lifetime,
      nor do I assert it is probable.  But the possibility is there,
      given scientists are working hard at "decoding" out "genetic
      code" to perhaps help cure disease of a genetic variation.
      Again, though, must there be "why" or a "divine prupose" to
      man's existence?

I believe the "genetic code" will be entirely deciphered in our lifetimes,
but we will not see man convert entirely inert material into self sustaining, 
reproducing life, *ever*.  (I've never been much of a prophet, though. I
can't even *picture* New York in my mind 8^] ).  I don't believe *any*
technology would be able to produce that necessary *spark* of life, despite
having all of the parts available. Just my opinion.

That preposition sort of precludes an absolute, doesn't it?  Without an 
absolute conclusion, what are we left with?  I believe the word "faith"
works nicely.
  But before you write off all Christianity as phony and shallow, I hope
  you'll do a little research into its history and varieties, perhaps by
  reading Paul Johnson's "A History of Christianity".  From your remarks,
  it seems that you have been exposed to certain types of Christian
  religion and not others.  Even an atheist should have enough faith in
  Man to know that a movement of 2000 years has to have some depth, and
  be animated by some enduring values.
 Well, then, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, Hinduism, Judaism,
      Zoerasterism, Shintoism, and Islam should fit this bit of logic
      quite nicely... -)  All have depth, all have enduring values,
      thus all must be true...
For isn't this the purpose of religion - to discover, and in discovery, to
You don't mind if a few of us send up a prayer on your behalf during your
research, do you?  After all, if we of Christ are deluding ourselves, you
really have nothing to worry about, eh?
They believe the danger is real, but others may not.
Does that mean that the first group are NECESSARILY arrogant in warning
others of the danger? Does it mean that they are saying that their beliefs
are correct, and all others are false?
Some might indeed react to opposition with arrogance, and behave in an
arrogant manner, but that is a personal idiocyncracy. It does not
necessarily mean that they are all arrogant.
I may be interesting to see some brief selections posted to the net.
My understanding is that SSPX does not consider ITSELF in schism
or legitimately excommunicated.  But that's really beside the point.
What does the Roman Catholic church say?  Excommunication can be
real apart from formal excommunication, as provided for in canon law.
[I think it's within the charter.  Whether this is actually the best
group in which to discuss it is up to the people concerned.  I am not
interested in having this reinvoke the general Catholic/Protestant
polemics, but I don't see why it should -- the issue is primarily one
specific to Catholics.  --clh]
 	I realize I'm entering this discussion rather late, but I do
 have one question. Wasn't it a Reagan appointee, James Watt, a
 pentacostal christian (I think) who was the secretary of the interior
 who saw no problem with deforestation since we were "living in the
 last days" and ours would be the last generation to see the redwoods
 anyway?
 I heard the same thing, but without confirmation that he actually said it.
 It was just as alarming to us as to you; the Bible says that nobody knows
 when the second coming will take place.
I do recall Watt making a comment to this effect, though it was quite a few
years back and I can't cite the specifics.  I also recall that Cecil Andrus, who
was Secretary of the Interior during the Carter Administration, responded
to Watt's comments by pointing out the stewardship role that God gave
to man, as recorded in Genesis.  Which makes me wonder who are the
true conservatives?  It seems to me that a *conservative* should want to
*conserve* things of value for long-term societal benefit.  This form of
*conservation* should logically extend to the physical environment in 
which people live, as well as the moral environment in which they relate
to one another and to God.
IMHO, Watt's stewardship status is not enhanced by the fact that he served 
on the board of directors for Jim Bakker's organization, during a time in 
which Bakker committed criminal acts which eventually landed Bakker 
in federal prison.
From kwyatt@ccscola.columbiasc.ncr.com (Kershner Wyatt)
Subject Re quality of Catholic liturgy
   On Palm Sunday at our parish, we were "invited" to take the role of
Jesus in the Passion.  I declined to participate.  Last year at the
liturgy meeting I pointed out how we crucify Christ by our sins, so
therefore it is appropriate that we retain the role of the crowd, but
to no avail.
musicians, readers, and so on.  New things are introduced in the course of the
liturgy and since no one knows what's happening, the new things have to be
explained, and pretty soon instead of _doing_ a lot of the Mass we're just
sitting there listening (or spacing out, in my case) to how the Mass is about
to be done.  In my mind, I lay the blame on liturgy committees made up of lay
people to be aware of the Lord's presence.
I spent many years as a Lector reading the Passion parts as appropriate in
the Catholic Church and I found it very meaningful.  Our Lutheran parish just
instituted the "Tenebrae" service for Good Friday and I was the lector for 
a paraphrased Passion which was exceptional.  I heard and learned things
that I have previously overlooked in the Gospels - yet those "facts" were
always there.  As a matter of interest, the pastor and I were talking about
the differences between the RC and Lutheran Church during Holy Week over
breakfast Easter Sunday.
   As a member of a liturgy committee, I can tell you that the problem
is certain people dominating, who want to try out all kinds of
innovations.  The priests don't seem even to _want_ to make any
decisions of their own in many cases.  I guess it's easier to "try
something new" than it is to refuse to allow it.
I believe the reason that he & I "click" instead of "bash" heads is because
I see Christianity as a tool for revolution, & not a tool for maintaining
the status quo.  To be quite blunt, I have more of a reason to reject God
than he does just by the fact that I am an African-American female. 
Christianity & religion have been used as tools to separate my people from
the true knowledge of our history & the wealth of our contributions to the
world society.  The "kitchen of heaven" was all we had to look forward to
during the slave days, & this mentality & second-class status still exists
today.  I, too, have rejected
an aspect of Christianity----that of the estabished church.  Too much
hypocricy exists behind the walls of "God's house" beginning with the
images of a white Jesus to that of the members  praise God on Sunday &
raise hell beginning Monday.  God-willing, I will find a church home where
I can feel comfortable & at-home, but I don't see it happening anytime
soon.
kousalya subraja rama poorva sanya sama pradhe
Hinduism is the majority religion[1][2] of the Indian subcontinent, particularly of Nepal and India. Hinduism includes Shaivism, Vaishnavism and rauta among numerous other traditions. Among other practices and philosophies, Hinduism includes a wide spectrum of laws and prescriptions of "daily morality" based on karma, dharma, and societal norms. Hinduism is a categorisation of distinct intellectual or philosophical points of view, rather than a rigid, common set of beliefs.[3]
Hinduism consists of many diverse traditions and has no single founder.[4] Among its direct roots is the historical Vedic religion of Iron Age India and, as such, Hinduism is often called the "oldest living religion"[5] or the "oldest living major religion" in the world.[1][6][7][8]
One orthodox classification of Hindu texts is to divide into ruti ("revealed") and Smriti ("remembered") texts. These texts discuss theology, philosophy, mythology, rituals and temple building among other topics. Major scriptures include the Vedas, Upanishads, Puras, Mahbhrata, Rmyaa, Manusmriti, Bhagavad Gt and gamas.
Hinduism, with about one billion followers[9] (950 million estimated in India),[10] is the world's third largest religion, after Christianity and Islam.
Gayatri Mantra  Most Powerful Vedic Mantra
Om Bhur Buvaha Svaha 
Tat Savitur Varenyam
Bhargo Devasya Dheemahi
Dhiyo Yonaha Prachodayath
Gayatri Mantra English Translation
O Supreme Creator, Thou art the giver of life, the remover of pain and sorrow and the bestower of happiness; O Creator of the Universe, may we receive Thy supreme sin-destroying light; may Thou guide our intellect in the right direction.
Hindu Mantra #2
Mahamritunjay Lord Shivas Mantra 
Om
Tryambakam Yajamahe
Sugandhim Pushti Vardhanam
Urvarukamiva Bandhanat
Mrytyor Muksheeya Mamritat
Mahamritunjay Mantra English Translation
O Great Three Eyed Lord of All Worlds. You are the sweet fragrance of life.  You are the creator and sustainer.  Free us from the terrible diseases of ignorance, attachment and weakness.  Deliver us from the cycle of birth and death to freedom and ultimate liberation.
Hindu Mantra #3
Vishvani Deva Mantra for Abundance
Om Vishvani Deva
Svitarduritani Para Suva
Yad Bhadram
Tanna a Suva
Vishnavi Deva Mantra English TranslationO Supreme Creator, You are the creator of the entire Universe.  Take away all the bad deeds, bad habits and miseries.  Give us all the good qualities, and blissful and auspicious objects.
Lord Ganesha Vakratunda Mahakaya Mantra for Success 
Vakratunda Mahakaya
Surya Koti Samaprabha
Nirvighnam Kurumedeva 
Shubha Karyeshu Sarvada
Om Mantra  The Highest Mantra 
AUM (OM)
Kousalya supraja rama poorva sanya sama pradhe
1. Ganesha

Easily recognizable as the elephant-deity riding a mouse, Ganesha is arguably he most popular Hindu God, and one of the commonest mnemonics for anything associated with Hinduism. The son of Shiva and Parvati, Ganesha is depicted has having a curved trunk and big ears, and a huge pot-bellied body of a human being. He is the lord of success and destroyer of evils and obstacles. He is also worshipped as the god of knowledge, wisdom and wealth.
Ads
New Baby Boy Names
StartHealthyStayHealthy.in/Boy-Name
New Baby Boy Names with Meaning. Find List of Names from 'A' to 'Z'.
Baby name meanings
www.babycenter.in/names
Thousands of unique baby names With the expert, Johnsons Baby
Free Astrology Software
www.indianastrologysoftware.com
Get the most accurate Free Astrology Software. Download now !
2. Shiva
The most powerful and fascinating deity in Hinduism, who represents death and dissolution. One of the godheads in the Hindu Trinity, and known by many names - Mahadeva, Pashupati, Nataraja, Vishwanath, Bhole Nath - Shiva is perhaps the most complex of Hindu deities. Hindus recognise this by putting his shrine in the temple separate from those of other deities and worshipping Shiva as a phallic symbol called the Shiva Limgam in most temples.
3. Krishna
The great exponent of the Gita, Krishna is the ninth and the most complete avatar of Vishnu, the Godhead of the Hindu Trinity. Of all avatars he is the most popular and perhaps the one closest to the heart of the masses. This blue-skinned deity has influenced the Indian thought, life and culture in myriad ways - not only its religion and philosophy, but also into its mysticism and literature, painting and sculpture, dance and music, and all aspects of Indian folklore.
4. Rama
Rama, the perfect avatar of the Supreme Protector Vishnu, is an all-time favorite among Hindu deities. The most popular symbol of chivalry and virtue, Rama is the embodiment of truth, of morality, the ideal son, the ideal husband, and above all, the ideal king." He is widely believed to be an actual historical figure - a "tribal hero of ancient India" - whose exploits form the great Hindu epic of Ramayana or The Romance of Rama.
5. Hanuman
Hanuman, the mighty ape that aided Lord Rama in his expedition against evil forces, described in the epic Ramayana, is one of the most popular idols in the Hindu pantheon. Believed to be an avatar of Lord Shiva, Hanuman is worshipped as a symbol of physical strength, perseverance and devotion. In times of trouble, it is a common faith among Hindus to chant the name of Hanuman or sing his hymn - "Hanuman Chalisa". Hanuman temples are among the most common public shrines found in India.
6. Vishnu
The peace-loving deity of the Hindu Trinity, Vishnu is the Preserver or Sustainer of life with his steadfast principles of order, righteousness and truth. When these values are under threat, Vishnu emerges out of his transcendence to restore peace and order on earth. Vishnus earthly incarnations have 10 major avatars. The devout followers of Vishnu are called Vaishnavas, and his consort is Lakshmi. Vishnu is popularly worshipped as Lord Venkateshwara in the southern India.
7. Lakshmi
Goddess Lakshmi means "Good Luck" to Hindus. The word 'Lakshmi' is derived from the Sanskrit word Laksya, meaning 'aim' or 'goal', and she is the goddess of wealth and prosperity, both material and spiritual. She is the household goddess of most Hindu families, and a favorite of women. Lakshmi is depicted as a beautiful woman of golden complexion, with four hands, sitting or standing on a full-bloomed lotus and holding a lotus bud, which stands for beauty, purity and fertility.
8. Durga
The Mother Goddess  known variously as Durga, Bhavani, Sherawali, Amba, Chandika, Gauri, Parvati, Vaishno Devi  represents the fiery powers of the gods. The name Durga means inaccessible, and she is the personification of the active side of the divine shakti energy of Lord Shiva. Durga is usually portrayed as riding a lion, and carrying weapons in her many arms. She is the protector of the righteous, and destroyer of the evil.
Ads
9. Kali
Kali, or the dark goddess, is the fearful and ferocious form of the mother goddess Durga. She is depicted as having born from the brow of Goddess Durga during one of her battles with the evil forces. Kali is represented with perhaps the fiercest features amongst all the world's deities. Her tongue protrudes from her mouth, her eyes are red, and her face and breasts are sullied with blood. She stands with one foot on the thigh, and another on the chest of her husband, Shiva.
10. Saraswati
Saraswati, the goddess of knowledge and learning, represents the free flow of wisdom and consciousness. She is the mother of the Vedas, and chants to her, called the 'Saraswati Vandana' often begin and end Vedic lessons. The goddess of wisdom, art and music, she is the daughter of Lord Shiva and Goddess Durga. It is believed that goddess Saraswati endows human beings with the powers of speech, wisdom and learning.
#science New methods developed for restoring sight to patients with blinding diseases.  
#religion Child shot in face for "blasphemy"
A #religion that can't handle criticism is null & void "Egyptian author sentenced to five years.
Nice. Wikipedia has an entire article on "The Bible and Violence."  http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Bible_and_violence 
Ball isn't life. GOD IS.
Nanotechnology and religion a complex relationship.
"@nprnews Southern Baptists Condemn Policy Shift On Gay Boy Scouts 
When was the last time #atheists did this? Oh, #religion!
Religious Cross Pendant Necklace, Bible Verse Necklace, Photo Necklace, Jesus Necklace
Northern Ireland Attempts to Bridge Religious Rifts Through Youth Soccer
Total number of religionists with enough "faith" for the Prayer Challenge
Americans less accepting of homosexuality than Canadians, W. Europeans religion may b1 
#Syria in a vise "Syrian Teenagers Public Death Reveals Growing Anger as Civil War Continues" 
Culture came from People. #Religion came from Allah. So remember when you choose culture over Religion, you're choosing people over Allah.
While #science is driving a robot about on another planet, #religion blew up a bus in Iraq.  I know which of those deserves respect!
A Challenge to all Christians.....#religion
"Science should be a package deal." #religion
From @holypost Picky Bible-quoters ignore uncomfortable verses when attacking gay rights
Huffington Post Christian Prophet Says Native American Bloodlines Must Repent A Christian prophet
Citing Population Concerns, Serbian Orthodox Church Calls for Abortion Ban  Balkan
Czech court compensates churches for Communist seizures #religion
Crowd stunned after valedictorian rips up speech, recites Lord's prayer -Washington Times 
WARNING Graphic images  "The Gruesome Truth About Islam and A Message For Obama 
Atheist Hotline Will Offer Answers To Those Questioning Religion -
Atheist Hotline Will Offer Answers To Those Questioning Religion
A toll-free atheist hotline will offer answers to those questioning and recovering from their religion. Close to 40 atheist support groups, belonging to Recovering from Religion, have ...
To the unknown god @AmericanAtheist #Christianity #religion
"I choose a life of celibacy." No problem. "I choose that lifestyle for you as well." Now we have a problem. #Religion
I'm sick to my stomach 'Faith-Healing Churches Linked to 2 Dozen Child Deaths' http//blog.opensewer.com/2013/06/religion-takes-another-victim.html  #religion
Serbian Church Calls for Abortion Ban Citing Population Concerns
People have rights! 
Mandatory #vaccines violate the individuals First Amendment rights to Freedom of #Religion and Freedom of Expression no alcohol tonight at Gezi Park as it is Laylat al- Miraj. everyone invited for tea instead. #occupygezi respect to #religion
Expand
"@adrianbriggs Not one person, in all of human history, has ever found Christ without being told about him first."   #atheism #religion
One of my otherwise-intelligent Muslim friends is forcing his 18 month old baby girl to fast today for Lailat al Mi'raj. #Islam #Religion
Can a Christian watch 'Game of Thrones'? http//goo.gl/fb/0mTOc  #religion #gameofthroneshbo
 Freed From Religion @marikanotions 4 Jun
#Religion gets its strength from convincing people not to use their brains but to  accept blindly what they are told. It's dehumanizing.
#Atheists plan to start a 1-800 hotline to counsel people "recovering" from #religion 
Atheists to start 1-800 hotline for doubters Who can people call when religious doubts arise, but they're afraid to talk to their faith leaders or families? A group that helps people "recover" from religion says it's...

Abrahamic religions Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. All three faiths trace their origins to the patriarch Abraham who rejected the polytheism of ancient Sumer to embrace a belief in one, invisible, deity. Sometimes referred to as the desert religions.
agnosticism the philosophical position that the existence or non-existence of God or a First Cause is unknowable.
Anglican relating to the Church of England. An ancient name for the English people was Angles. The Church of England traces its beginning to 597, the year in which Pope Gregory I sent St. Augustine to Canterbury. The Church of England remained under papal authority until 1534 when Henry VIII declared himself the Supreme Head of the Church because of conflicts with Pope Clement VII.
animism the belief that every material form of reality (plants, animals, stones, thunderstorms, earthquakes) have an indwelling spirit; often includes belief in the continued existence of individual disembodied human spirits capable of helping or harming the living.
asceticism a mode of life that excludes physical pleasures and self-indulgence. Many religions regard asceticism (fasting, abstaining from sexual activity, wearing inadequate clothing) as a means of reaching a higher spiritual state.
atheism disbelief in any deity or supernatural power.
blasphemy indignity offered to God, from Greek blasphemia, a speaking ill, impious speech, slander. Religions define blasphemy in terms of their own beliefs, often designating prophets and holy objects along with God as subjects not to be profaned. Many countries have anti-blasphemy laws.
Buddhism the teaching that suffering is inherent to life and that the way to escape suffering and repeated existence is to limit ones desires and expectations. There are various sects with varying beliefs.
Confucianism a system of teachings characterized by central emphasis on the practice and cultivation of the cardinal virtues of filial piety, kindness, righteousness, propriety, intelligence, and faithfulness.
ecclesiastic relating to a church. Greek ekklesiastikos referred to the ancient Athenian political assembly. First century Christians writers adopted the word to mean assembly of believers, or church.
episcopal having to do with a bishop. Like ecclesiastic, the English word bishop derives from a Greek word, episkopos, watcher, overseer. The Greeks used their word to refer to government officials. First century Christian writers used bishop or episkopos to refer to church elders. In time bishop came to mean the chief administrator of a diocese (administrative district governed by a bishop) with the power to ordain. Episcopal is the adjective for bishop.
evangelical having to do with the Christian gospel/New Testament writings. The word is also used to describe a type of Christian belief that emphasizes the inerrancy of scripture and salvation through personal conversion.
Eucharist the sacrament of the Lords Supper, a rite in which bread and wine are consecrated and consumed in symbolic union with Christ. The word comes from a Greek word meaning grateful.
ecumenical worldwide. As applied to religion, the words current use to mean cooperation among religious groups began with a 20th century movement promoting the idea of an inter-confessional Christian unity. Now an ecumenical group cooperating on some matter of general social benefit might include representatives from non-Christian religions.
eschatology the study of matters relating to the ultimate destiny of mankind and the world.
Gnosticism the belief that salvation is to be obtained by means of secret knowledge and that the material world is evil. Gnostic mystery religions abounded in the Roman Empire. The early Christian church was fragmented into various sects, many of which taught a Gnostic version of the new religion.
gospel the story of Christs life and teachings as told in the first four books of the Christian New Testament. The literal meaning of the word is good news.
heresy a religious opinion, or adherence to such an opinion, that is contrary to an established religious teaching. The word comes from Greek hairesis, action of taking, choice, sect. Originally a heresy was simply a difference of opinion. It became a religious crime, often punished by death.
Hinduism a body of social, cultural, and religious beliefs and practices found chiefly in India. It includes a belief in reincarnation and transmigration of souls.
indulgence in Roman Catholicism, a remission of punishment, especially punishment in Purgatory (in Catholic belief, Purgatory is an intermediate place of purification for souls that departed stained with minor sins not deserving of eternal punishment in Hell).
Immaculate Conception the Roman Catholic doctrine that the Virgin Mary was conceived without Original Sin (the sin of Adam and Eve conveyed to all human beings). This is not the same thing as the Virgin Birth, the belief that Jesus was divinely begotten and miraculously born of a virgin mother.
jihad a holy war on behalf of Islam. The Christian equivalent word is crusade, a campaign or war sanctioned by the Church against unbelievers or heretics. Literal crusades were common in the Middle Ages and were directed against Christian heretics as well as non-Christians. Now the term is used figuratively to mean any remedial activity pursued with zeal and enthusiasm. The same meaning is becoming attached to jihad.
lay not in holy orders. In a monastery there are monks who pray and do intellectual work, and those who do manual work and attend to secular affairs. The latter are called lay brothers. The term has spread to non-religious professions. Someone who lacks professional knowledge of a particular profession is called a layman. In a church setting one may speak of the clergy and the laity (non-clerical members of the church).
monotheism the doctrine or belief that there is only one God.
nihilism the viewpoint that all traditional beliefs are unfounded and that human life has no meaning.
orthodox in agreement with the official doctrine of a given religion. The word is from Greek orthodoxein, to have the right opinion. The noun is orthodoxy. Departure from orthodoxy is called heterodoxy.
pagan  This is a term difficult to define in even such a superficial treatment as this. For the early Christians, a pagan was a believer in polytheistic religion. The word originally meant country dweller. The rural population was slower to adopt Christianity than the city dwellers, probably because their religion was closely bound to agricultural cycles. Nowadays there are religious groups that identify themselves as Pagans. Modern paganism is earth-centered and can include polytheistic beliefs. The word heathen is used pejoratively to mean a person without religion. Like pagan, heathen also points to the fact that non-city dwellers tended to reject religious change. Heath comes from a word meaning field. Heathen was originally an adjective meaning of the heath.
polytheism belief in more than one god.
profane not holy. Anything not related to religion and spirituality is profane. The word can also be used as a verb meaning to treat something sacred with irreverence.
secular worldly, not sacred. Similar to profane, secular refers to anything that is not specifically religious.
Allahu Akbar [God is great]
Ya Salaam. With its recital, we get connected with ourselves and the Divine, so its quite powerful and effective. The purpose of reciting this is mainly to gain peace of mind. It is recommended for those who get stressed easily due to various pressures.
Bismillah Al-Rahman, Al-Rahim [In the name of Allah, the most compassionate, the most merciful]. A powerful chant, it acknowledges, and thanks the Lord for His constant pouring of Divine Love
Ya Ali Madad. Imam Ali is the 1st Imam out of the other 12. He is one who is greatly respected. His name is chanted often but mostly during times of pain and trouble; the mantra is recited to call upon his help n blessings. Pleading for help from the Imam, this prayer requests for His support to enable one to follow the true path
Allaahumma Innee As a Luka BI-Ismika. Allah, I beseech Thee in Thy name. A great mantra to seek forgiveness.
Karma is a bitch
