4G cellular communication	First commercial LTE networks deployed in Sweden December 2009; candidate systems LTE-advanced and IEEE 802.16m (Mobile WiMAX Release 2) in development	broadband	Pervasive computing	Mobile broadband, mobile TV, Interactive TV, 3D-TV,[75] holographic cameras[75]
Ambient intelligence	Hypothetical			
Artificial brain	Research[76]		Neurological disease's treatments, artificial intelligence	Blue Brain Project
Artificial intelligence	Hypothetical, experiments; limited uses in specialized domains[77][78][79]	Human decision, analysis, etc.	Creating intelligent devices	Progress in artificial intelligence, technological singularity, applications of artificial Atomtronics	Hypothetical			
Augmented Reality	diffusion			
Cybermethodology				
Emerging memory technologies T-RAM, Z-RAM, TTRAM, CBRAM, SONOS, RRAM, Racetrack memory, NRAM, Millipede memory	In development	Current memory technologies		
Fourth-generation optical discs (3D optical data storage, Holographic data storage)	Research, prototyping[80]	Some mass storage methods/devices, magnetic tape data storage, optical data storage	Storing and archiving data previously erased for economic reasons	Blu-ray Disc, Optical storage
General-purpose computing on graphics processing units	Diffusion of non standardized methods	CPU for a few specialized uses	Order of magnitude faster processing of parallelizable algorithms	
Machine augmented cognition, exocortices	Diffusion of primitive amplifications; working prototypes of more; Hypothetical, experiments on more substantial amplification	Libraries, schools, training, pocket calculators		
Machine translation	Diffusion[81][82]	Human translation of natural languages, in areas where misunderstanding is non-critical and language is formalized	Easier and cheaper cross-cultural communication	
Machine vision	Research, prototyping, commercialization[76]	Biotic vision and perception, including humans	Biometrics, controlling processes (e.g., in driverless car, automated guided vehicle), detecting events (e.g., in visual surveillance), interaction (e.g., in human-computer interaction), robot vision	Computer vision, pattern recognition, digital image processing
Mobile collaboration	Development, commercialization[83]	Traditional video-conferencing systems	Extends the capabilities of video conferencing for use on hand-held mobile devices in real-time over secure networks. For use in diverse industries such as manufacturing, energy, healthcare.[84]	
Optical computing	Hypothetical, experiments; some components of integrated circuits have been developed[85]	Many electronics devices, integrated circuits	Smaller, faster, lower power consuming computing	
Quantum computing	Hypothetical, experiments,[86] commercialization[87]	Atomtronics,
Electronic computing, optical computing, quantum clock	Much faster computing, for some kinds of problems, chemical modeling, new materials with programmed properties, Hypothetical of high-temperature superconductivity and superfluidity	
Quantum cryptography	Commercialization[88]		Secure communications	
Radio-frequency identification	Diffusion of high cost[89][90][91]	Barcode	Smartstores - RFID based self checkout (keeping track of all incoming and outgoing products), food packaging, smart shelves, smart carts. See: potential uses	
Semantic Web or answer machine	Hypothetical, research	Search engines	Making the web machine-readable by annotating data on the web based on its meaning	
Speech recognition	Research,Development,Commercialization	Mechanical input devices		
Three-dimensional integrated circuit	Development, commercialization[92][93]	Conventional integrated circuit		
Virtual Reality	diffusion	Television	Entertainment, education	
Manufacturing[edit]

Emerging technology	Status	Potentially marginalized technologies	Potential applications	Related articles
3D printing	Commercial production[94][95]	Manual prototype production, some methods of mass production that lack customizability	Rapidly prototyping and producing plastic objects and multi-material items, with potential to significantly customize products for individual consumers	RepRap Project, Contour Crafting, D-Shape
Claytronics	Hypothetical, experiment	3D printing, traditional manufacturing methods and tools		
Molecular assembler	Hypothetical, experiment	3D printing, traditional manufacturing methods and tools		Replicator (Star Trek)
Utility fog	Hypothetical, experiment			
Materials science[edit]
Quantum dots	Research, experiments, prototypes[107]	LCD, LED	Quantum dot laser, future use as programmable matter in display technologies (TV, projection), optical data communications (high-speed data transmission), medicine (laser scalpel)	
Silicene	Hypothetical, research	Field-effect transistors		
Military[edit]
Emerging technology	Status	Potentially marginalized technologies	Potential applications	Related articles
Airborne laser	Research and development, trials	Missile defense	Tracking and destruction of tactical ballistic missiles	Advanced Tactical Laser, High Energy Liquid Laser Area Defense System
Antimatter weapon	Hypothetical	Nuclear weapons		
Caseless ammunition	Field tests and some niche markets	Cartridges		
Directed energy weapon	Research, development, some prototypes[108]	Firearms	Warfare	
Electrolaser	Research and development	Taser		
Electromagnetic weapons	Research and development[109][110]	Firearms	Warfare	Coilgun, Railgun
Electrothermal-chemical technology	Research and development	Conventional ammunition	Tank, artillery, and close-in weapon systems	
Particle beam weapon	Research and development	Firearms	Warfare	
Plasma weapon	Research			
Pure fusion weapon	Hypothetical			
Sonic weapon	Research and development			
Stealth technology	Research and development	Camouflage	Electronic countermeasures	Plasma stealth, Stealth aircraft, Radar-absorbent material
Vortex ring gun	Research and development	tear gas	Crowd control	
Neuroscience[edit]
Emerging technology	Status	Potentially marginalized technologies	Potential applications	Related articles
Airless tire	Research, development, early prototypes[120][121][122]	Conventional tire[122]	Safer tires[122]	Tweel
Alcubierre drive	Attempting to create a warp field in lab tests[123][124]		Interstellar exploration and colonization	Breakthrough Propulsion Physics Program
Alternative fuel vehicle	Commercialization, diffusion	Internal combustion engine	Reducing air pollution, decreasing oil consumption	Electric vehicle, Hydrogen vehicle, Compressed air vehicle
Beam-powered propulsion	Hypothetical			Laser propulsion
Driverless car	Research, development, prototypes[125][126][127]	Driver's licenses, rules of the road, traffic lights, traffic sign, highway patrols, vehicle insurances	Reducing traffic collision, increasing road capacity, reducing air pollution, reducing traffic congestion	Google driverless car, General Motors EN-V, CityCar, MIT Car
Flexible wings (X-53 Active Aeroelastic Wing, Adaptive Compliant Wing), fluidic flight controls	Experiments, prototypes[128][129][130][131][132]	Other flight control systems: ailerons, elevators, elevons,
flaps, flaperons
Controlling aircraft, ships	Aircraft flight control system, BAE Systems Demon, fluidics
Flying car	Early commercialization, prototypes[133][134]	Automobile, road	More effective transportation	Terrafugia Transition, Moller M400 Skycar, Urban Aeronautics X-Hawk
Hovertrain, Ground effect train	Research, development[135][136]	Conventional trains	Trains with higher speed	Aérotrain, Duke Hospital PRT, Hovercraft
Ion thruster	In use			
Jet pack or backpack helicopter	Early commercialization, prototypes[137][138]	Automobile	More effective transportation	
Maglev train, Vactrain	Research, early commercialization[139][140][141]	Conventional trains, the wheel	Trains with higher speed	Transrapid, Shanghai Maglev Train, Linimo
Mass driver	Prototypes			
Personal rapid transit	Early commercialization, diffusion[142][143]	Automobile	More effective transportation	Morgantown PRT, ULTra
Physical Internet	Research[144][145]	conventional logistics		
Propellant depot	Research, development	Heavy lift rockets	enabling deep-space missions with more massive payloads, satellite life extension, ultimately lowering the cost per kg launched to space	
Pulse detonation engine	Testbed demos			
Reusable launch system	Research, development	Expendable launch system	Surface-to-orbit transport	SpaceX Grasshopper
Scramjet	Research, development[146][147][148]	Conventional jet engine	Hypersonic aircraft	NASA X-43
Solar sail	In 2010, IKAROS was the world's first spacecraft designed to use solar sailing propulsion to be successfully launched		Space travel	
Space elevator	Research, development[149]			Non-rocket spacelaunch, Orbital ring, Sky hook, Space fountain
Spaceplane	Research, development[150][151][152]	Conventional airliners	Hypersonic transport	A2, Skylon
Supersonic transport	Commercialization existed, diffusion	Conventional airliners	Airliner with higher speed	Concorde, Tupolev Tu-144
Nuclear Launch Cannon	Hypothetical	Other cargo launch	Very cheap launch for cargo	
High Altitude Platforms	Experimentation	Most satellites, cell phone towers	Communications	High Altitude Platforms
Orion Nuclear Starship	Hypothetical, Experiments	Chemical rockets	Space launch	
Aeroscraft	Prototype		Heavy-lift, high altitude platform	
Float to Orbit	Hypothetical	Conventional space launch	Space launch	
3) Deux Ex Machina: [Actually, I think it should be Deus Ex Machina.] Machine learning innervates the tech frontier. (Innervate means to add intelligence to things that weren’t before, Jurvetson says. OK.) He says machine learning will underly a lot of innovations like it does Siri, driverless cars, and Google Now today. Big data and sensors everywhere are only useful if we have machine learning to make it meaningful. Humanoid robots entering the workplace. Real-time translation services. Just about anything you hear from Google that’s new involves machine learning.

Paddles: two green, two red. Cowan, a red, whips out his iPhone and asks Siri, “Will machine learning be important in the next five years?” The answer: “Would you like me to search the Web for that?” In other words, no. For things to actually work, he says, you need human curation of the algorithms. And for these systems to get smart, it takes as long as for a human. We won’t see a Moore’s Law for acceleration of the smartness of these algorithms. Ganesan, who waved a green paddle, thinks the glut of data will nearly mandate the need for machine intelligence. It’s not obvious yet but likely to happen faster than we think. Look at what IBM Watson is doing in medicine.

Lin says you won’t trust a black box to trust things about your life. (Well, what about the Magic Eight-Ball. OK, it’s a ball, not a box.) A human had to teach a car how to drive. Jurvetson responds that that’s the whole point of machine learning–it gets taught and then does the job more consistently–he’d rather have a driverless car than most people he has driven with.

Audience: Around 75% agree (as do I).

4) The Individual Revolution: Technology has given us unprecedented tools to get work done individually that once required large organizations, Lin says. Again, half red, half green. Zachary, a green paddle, says a lot of companies he sees are focused on human potential. Jurvetson, a red, isn’t sure what examples he’s thinking of. Neither am I, honestly. Lin says the ubiquity of the mobile phone is what’s empowering this. All these services enable a much faster response. Ganesan, who agrees with Lin, says all these productivity tools enable individuals to be a much bigger business presence.

Cowan, the other red paddle, says there’s an illusion that we should all be our own bosses. There’s a downside to the incubators who promote this. The most worthy ventures I see require teams to pursue. The audience isn’t so sure either–two-thirds disagree.

5) The U.S. Is The Supreme Cyber Security Force: Citizens will accept complete observation by the state, says Zachary. Why? The forces of hate will never subside. People will create a drone with 3D printing and bomb a building. Then the government will crack down and analyze every cell phone call. Shades of Minority Report, or the Bourne movies. This will lead to other countries to develop technologies to counter this, creating cyber-wars. Once again, panelists split in half.
6) Cyber Warfare Becomes A Good Thing. Cyber missions are instant, effective, relatively free, and nonlethal, says Cowan. This will completely disrupt the defense industry. Companies usually wish hacking will go away, but it won’t. There’s a great opportunity for startups to handle these threats. Hackers will be heroes, in other words. Two reds, two greens again.
7) Certifications, Not Diplomas: The emergence of Massively Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and other online lifelong learning educational sites such as Khan Academy, Coursera, and Udacity means the future will be deﬁned not by where you went to school but rather by what you know, says Ganesan. Hasn’t this really always been the case, at least by your 30s? The educational world is becoming ﬂat, he said. Or to put it more plainly, it won’t be what you studied that’s important, but what you shipped. Well, if you’re an engineer or an entrepreneur.
Audience is split in half. Cowan adds: Your kid gets accepted into Stanford–are you going to say, no no, I’d rather she do MOOCs. No.
8) Erasing The digital divide Ironically Accelerates The Rich-Poor Gap. Winner-take-all network effects will rule, says Jurvetson. He says he’s a technology enthusiast but worries info technologies will exacerbate the gap, particularly in regional areas that used to be protected from global competition. Two billion people coming online in the next couple years will produce a wealth of cheap talent. Paddles: Yet another even split.

9) Personalized Medicine: The ability to cheaply sequence genomes means we will solve a lot of diseases, says Lin. Calling John Doerr, who predicted this years ago, and I think he wasn’t the first. It’s possible in a year or two that we can sequence a person’s genome for $1000, maybe $100 in a few years. Machine learning and big data will allow us to understand this data and the medicine we need to fix our diseases. Paddles: half and half again.
audience is slightly more in agreement than not.

10) Wearable Computing Is The Watch, Not The Glass: The watch supplants the phone as primary display and interface, says Zachary. Pebble, in which he has invested, has sold $36 million worth of its smart watches. Watches are just so natural for people to wear, unlike Google Glass. Paddles are all red! “That means I made a good investment,” he says. “To be a good investor,” responds Jurvetson, “you have to be contrarian and right.” He notes that nobody under 35 wears a watch. Too geeky, adds Lin. Plus, says Ganesan, a watch has little of the utility of the phone.
1. Embeddable Electronics

Self-monitoring is nothing new. Gadgets like the Fitbit Flex, part of the growing so-called "quantified self" trend, show you exactly how many calories you're burning during the day. In the future, these sensors and electronics will go deeper--literally. Instead of wearing a chip around the wrist, people will embed directly in their bodies. "This will allow people to have better insight, hour to hour, and day to day, on the state of their bodies, and thus monitor their health and wellness in ways that just haven't been possible before," says Intel futurist Steve Brown. The chip could report when a heart attack could be imminent and alert emergency personnel.
2. Programmable Materials
Imagine the ability to program a plant to form into a specific shape when it grows larger. Many futurists say this kind of programmable biology--where materials can self-assemble over time according to specific triggers--is a key trend for the future, and businesses should take note.
According to Carlos Olguin, a materials analyst at Autodesk Research, this could lead to a "have" and "have not" scenario when normal biology and digital biology start to overlap, similar to how the analog and digital worlds intersect. "This will not only be about the separation between those who are able to understand and exploit information technology and those who cannot, but also between those who are able to be enhanced biologically and those who cannot or decide not to do so," he says.
3. Quantified Society
The Quantified Self is about to go macro. A few examples: Recently, a professor at Texas A&M's school of business revealed how he knew a student had not opened an e-book during a course. Research at West Point and Samford University in Alabama has shown how law enforcement in the future will track how often you speed and then issue a robotic ticket for frequent offenders.
Tools like Geckoboard are invaluable. They help you understand the current state of your small business and help you react accordingly. And many IT companies like Applied Predictive Technologies are already helpings companies understand massive data sets. Agile has been very popular but may not be applicable to organizations that are not solely focused on software product development and have limited resources to make the investments required to make agile a success. Icreon predicts that a greater number of companies will turn to agile-ish development, which is still iterative and collaborative but requires less ongoing support from the client.
There is no such thing as an IT project; there are only business projects that are enabled by IT. IT professionals are becoming more attentive than ever to business and the role end users play in the ultimate success of the software. 2013 will involve businesses setting aside more time and budget toward intangibles around IT: communication plans, continuous user training and implementation support.
Past social networks like MySpace, Orkut and Friendster were decimated by Facebook’s domination. Today, however, Facebook’s ubiquity has led to the proliferation of the niche social network. From photo and video sharing on Instagram and Vimeo, to music and theater lovers using Spotify and Playbill Memory Bank. In 2013, expect to see more custom networks that use Facebook’s login mechanism as a gateway to smaller, more focused social networks.
Skeuomorphism, the act of using physical textures, such as stitched leather, for no particular function, has become a principle on how not to design software. With Microsoft’s Windows 8 and Google’s Android operating systems as indicators, in 2013 the user experience of software will be vastly different from years past, with solid colors, clean type and pure UI, avoiding the “noise” that comes with gradients, glossy buttons and flashy banners.
Gartner, Inc. has revealed its top predictions for IT organizations and IT users for 2013 and beyond. Their top predictions focus on economic risks, opportunities and innovations that will impel CIOs to move to the next generation of business-driven solutions. Selected from across Gartner's research areas as the most compelling and critical predictions, they address the trends and topics that underline the reduction of control that IT has over the forces that affect it.
Technology firms in the United States might be impacted adversely by the National Security Agency's controversial PRISM program. Classified documents about the program leaked to The Washington Post and The Guardian indicate that major U.S. high-tech companies provide it data. This data is the major source of raw intelligence for the NSA's analytical reports, according to the agency.
Early Salvos Launched Ahead of Cybersecurity Talks
Hover your finger over the screen to preview photos, emails & speed dial with #AirView on #GALAXYS4.
TRAQ quadricopter locates and traces down the source of radio signals
Researchers flaunt flying bike, no mention of alien-caching basket (video) 
What's Fueling Growth In The Fragmented World Of Messaging Apps? Immigrants
sharing #suaju How would you use £500000 and technology to change the world? - The Guardian #technology 
#technology CloudFlare's Mirage 2.0 Speeds Up Mobile Sites By Using Virtualized Images And Minimizing Requests 
#technology What's Fueling Growth In The Fragmented World Of Messaging Apps?
Panel backs introduction of digital learning in US 
Survey says many in US worry about online privacy 
Key witness to testify in Apple e-book trial - Washington Post
Prism: concerns over government tyranny are legitimate - The Guardian 
Will Google Glass Make us Less Open?
#UCWRadio  CloudFlare's Mirage 2.0 Speeds Up Mobile Sites By Using Virtualized Images And Minimizing
CloudFlare's Mirage 2.0 Speeds Up Mobile Sites By Using Virtualized Images And Minimizing
Google Sees Jump in Iranian Phishing Scams as Election Looms 
Flying bike for easier commutes: Researchers in the Czech Republic have unveiled a 95kg
#Facebook: Now all your hashtags ARE BELONG TO US, Twitter
US study sounds alarm on voice-to-text features in cars - Automotive News 
WhatsApp Still Killing It By Messaging Volume Despite Free Rivals Crowding
How to Customize Your Mobile Google Maps Experience 
Google Probably Found Iran's Pre-Election Phishing Scheme#technology King hopes Pet Rescue Saga will be a Candy Crush Saga-sized mobile hit http://dlvr.it/3WC4gj  (@guardiantech)
NASA put all that space junk in orbit. Can they clean it up? http://ow.ly/5KV5o  #technology
Xbox One Will Launch In Select Asian Countries In Late 2014:  http://bit.ly/18B4Avi  #Technology, #Tech
The academic paper that predicted the #NSA scandal 
We describe lots of great synergies btw #technology & #ccss in our chapter. Tweets & titles misleading!
Advances in #technology could help end #poverty by 2030 but only if they are exploited judiciously
King hopes Pet Rescue Saga will be a Candy Crush Saga-sized mobile hit 
Airport Extreme Teardown: Hack This Router With Your Own Hard Drive #technology 
Keeping the lights on in the global industrial world -- never an easy task -- never seems to get any easier. Nuclear energy, which provides nearly 20 percent of our nation's electricity, is at a crossroads. Can nuclear reactors -- the torrid, pulsating, heat-generating hearts of nuclear power plants -- ever be safe enough? Thanks to several new technologies, the outlook is promising.
Amazon Polishes Apple's case at E-Book Trial
June 07, 2013
The antitrust trial pitting the DoJ against Apple over fixing e-book prices began this week, and it didn't take long for the company's lawyers to poke a hole in the government's case. On Wednesday, they showed through questioning that a key element of the DoJ's case had less to do with Apple colluding with publishers to hike e-book prices than with standard business practices.	Government Prying Into Verizon Customer Records Exposed
June 06, 2013
The National Security Agency reportedly has been collecting the phone records of millions of Verizon users in the United States under a secret court order. Specifically, Verizon has been required to provide an ongoing account of all telephone calls on its systems, including those inside the U.S. and between the U.S. and other countries.
ITC Slaps Apple in Samsung Infringement Case
June 06, 2013
The U.S. International Trade Commission has partially reversed an earlier ruling and found that Apple infringed one of Samsung's patents after all, leading it to ban the import of certain older iPhones and iPads. The ban includes such products as the iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS, original iPad 3G and iPad 2 3G. The iPhone 5 and the fourth-generation iPad remain unaffected.	 Takes a Swing at Patent Trolls
June 05, 2013
The  administration on Tuesday targeted patent trolls with a number of initiatives aimed at curbing activity it blames for stymieing innovation in America. The initiatives include five executive orders and seven legislative recommendations. Patent trolls have been accused of abusing the system to squeeze money from just about anyone using technology containing their intellectual property.
London Police Now Pen Pals With BitTorrent Operators
June 05, 2013
Britain's National Fraud Intelligence Bureau has begun sending letters to people it suspects of operating websites that provide access to unauthorized content for "criminal gain." The letters state that law enforcement authorities are working with the government and "industry bodies" and go on to say that operators of copyright-happy sites are in breach of the Serious Crimes Act.	Even Hands-Free Phone Use May Be Hazardous in Cars
June 05, 2013
We all know by now that using a cellphone while driving can be a dangerous practice, but talking on a hands-free phone may not be much better. That's because people talk on the phone so regularly that they have developed learned habits that take over their awareness, according to Robert Rosenberger, an assistant professor in the School of Public Policy at Georgia Institute of Technology.
No 'Big Yellow Duck' on Chinese Twitter
June 04, 2013
The anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989 has prompted Chinese authorities to expand the list of words and phrases barred from Sina Weibo, the country's Twitter-like platform. This is par for the course in China, where in 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 -- basically every year social media has been huge -- the Net police have exerted extra authority to squelch conversation about the event.	The Internet Against the World
June 04, 2013
Last December, the United Nations-sponsored World Conference on International Telecommunications accomplished... well, not a ton. Disagreement abounded, as Western democracies aligned against predictable foes to ensure that the proceedings ended at loggerheads. Despite the December stalemate, the UN's International Telecommunication Union hasn't given up.
Hack Reports Fly Ahead of China, US Presidents' Meeting
June 03, 2013
Numerous new accusations have kept cyberespionage firmly in the media spotlight in the run-up to President Barack 's meeting this week with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Within 24 hours, stories broke about Chinese hackers pinching the designs for some of Uncle Sam's critical weapons systems and nicking the architectural plans for the $630 million headquarters for Australia's top spy agency.	US, China to Hold Regular Cybersecurity Chats
June 03, 2013
Increasingly testy rhetoric and increasingly legitimate concerns have prompted the United States and China to announce that they will hold regular high-level talks on standards of cyberbehavior. The announcement precedes a meeting between President  and Chinese president Xi Jinping scheduled for Friday.
Google Goes All-American With Moto X
May 31, 2013
Google company Motorola has announced a new smartphone that will be designed, engineered and assembled in the United States -- the Moto X. It will be manufactured in a factory in Fort Worth, Texas. "There are more than 130 million smartphones in use in the U.S., but not one of them is made here. That changes with Moto X," said Motorola spokesperson Danielle McNally.	Apple to Give Pegatron a Slice of Its China Pie
May 31, 2013
Foxconn, a supplier that has occasionally embarrassed Apple, will no longer be the exclusive maker of the iPhone and iPad. More work reportedly will be funneled to another Chinese electronics firm, Pegatron. The shift of product to Pegatron began in 2011, when some iPhone business was awarded the company. Last year, Apple chose Pegatron to fill its retail channel with iPad minis.
SoftBank, US Forge National Security Deal
May 30, 2013
SoftBank has reached a national security agreement with U.S. authorities, perhaps clearing the way for the Japanese company to purchase Sprint Nextel. U.S. officials have expressed concerns about potential ties between SoftBank and Chinese telecommunications firms like Huawei. Chinese telecoms drew the ire of Congress in late 2012, and security rhetoric has recently ratcheted up.	Facebook Shovels Out Some of the Filth
May 30, 2013
Facebook is enmeshed in yet another brouhaha over its advertising policies, but this time it's not the users making a fuss -- it's the advertisers. Major clients such as Nissan and Nationwide recently pulled the plug on their Facebook campaigns after their ads showed up next to objectionable, sometimes downright hateful, content.
Angst and Anxiety Over Ubuntu's Chosen Path
After all the bold moves Canonical has made regarding Ubuntu in the past few years, it's not exactly any secret that a significant portion of the Linux community remains unconvinced as to the wisdom of its chosen path. Indeed, it was just a few weeks ago that the project decided to launch its very own package format and installer, resulting in more than a few raised eyebrows among FOSS fans.	Chinese Hackers May Have Pinched US Military Designs
Chinese hackers were accused of stealing the designs for more than two dozen U.S. military weapons systems in a press account appearing Monday. The system designs reportedly pinched by the hackers were for systems critical to the country's missile defenses and its combat aircraft and war ships. The revelations were based on confidential sections of a government report.
Android
Google's open-source operating system for mobile devices has become one of the most popular smartphone platforms. Check the latest Android stories and blogs.

Cloud computing
Computerworld coverage of issues associated with moving apps, data and services to the cloud. See the latest cloud articles as well as current cloud-related blogs.

Enterprise IT
Keep up with all the important technology trends and issues affecting large and midsize organizations. See our enterprise articles and blogs.

E-readers and E-books
All about the Kindle, Nook, Sony Reader and more. Check out articles, reviews and blogs.

Google+
Computerworld's continuing coverage of Google's social network. See our Google+ news, blogs, opinion, review, and videos.

Hadoop
What you need to know about the open-source big-data framework. See our Hadoop articles and blogs.

iPad
The Apple tablet is having major impact in the mobile world. See Computerworld's complete iPad coverage.

iPhone
Complete Computerworld coverage of Apple's game-changing smartphone. See our iPhone stories and blogs.

Microsoft Surface
What you need to know about Microsoft's tablet and mobile strategy. See our articles and blogs about Surface.

Open source
Coverage of the most important and interesting open-source projects. Read the latest articles about open-source software and check out recent blog posts on open source.

Tablets
All the latest news, reviews and analysis about these increasingly popular mobile devices. Head to our tablet articles and blogs.

Virtualization
See our latest virtualization articles and recent blog posts on virtualization, a key server and data center technology.

Desktop Virtualization
Key advice and case studies about enterprise implementation of desktop virtualization technologies. Plus, The Book on Desktop Virtualization and our recent blogs on desktop virtualization.

Viruses, vulnerabilities and security holes
Stay up to date on the latest news and advice about malware.
Web 2.0
Coverage of social media (such as Facebook and Twitter), online collaboration systems, Web tools and more. See our latest Web 2.0 articles and recent Web 2.0 blogs.

Windows 8
Microsoft has unveiled the next generation of Windows, calling it a "reimagining" of the OS that will run on all types of devices. Follow all the news, analysis, opinion, and blogs with our continuing coverage page.

404 - Originally a technical term for Not Found 404 (which is an error message seen on a...
411 - Online jargon, also known as text message shorthand, used primarily in texting, online...
86 - Online jargon, also known as text message shorthand, used primarily in texting, online...
age - Actually it is "-age" which is a suffix used in slang to exaggerate a word and give...
anime - An artistic and sensual type of Japanese animation. On the Internet, one can find...
back button - One of the buttons at the top of a Web browser. By clicking on it, you "go back" to...
bandwidth - The technical definition of "bandwidth" involves the difference between two frequencies...
biobreak - An office friendly way of saying that one needs to take a bathroom break.
brain dump - To empty one's brain of any and all information relating to a particular subject....
cached out - Slang for extremely tired, as in, "wiped out."
cookies - A funny name for a noun that describes a small piece of information about you (about...
cryptic - Primarily used as slang, it refers to anything that is hard to read. For example,...
dead-tree version - Slang for a printed document or publication, as opposed to an electronic version.
deep dive - Slang for exploring a subject in-depth. For example, "We did a deep dive on that market...
defrag - To optimize your hard drive, usually with a program that "cleans it up" and makes...
delete - To remove a file or erase information.
down time - This expression refers to lost production time due to a broken machine and its operator...
eye candy - Slang for extra graphics (or images) included on a Web page with the intent of making...
Film at 11 - With reference to TV commercials for the late local news, it's a sarcastic phrase...
Google - Founded in 1998 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, two Stanford Ph.D. candidates who developed...
hot spot - In the world of IT this term refers to places that have wireless Internet connections....
huge pipes - Slang for a high-bandwidth Internet connection.
interface - In a general sense, it is the portion of a program that interacts between a user and...
just-in-time (JIT) - Traditionally, this phrase describes a compiler that turns Java bytecode, for example,...
legacy media - Media that is considered "old," such as radio, television, and especially newspapers....
McLuhanism - A term for a catchy phrase or slogan coined by Marshall McLuhan, popular writer and...
meatspace - Slang for the real world, as opposed to cyberspace.
mommy-save - Slang for the act of indiscriminately clicking 'Save' without first choosing an appropriate...
morph or morphing - From the term "metamorphosis," it is to turn one thing into another. It most commonly...
multitasking - The simultaneous execution of more than one task. For example, a computer that launches...
navigate - The act of moving around the Web by clicking on hypertext links (or paths) that take...
opt-out - Any time a user requests to be removed from any kind of online program, he or she...
PDFing - An example of a word morphing, this term once described the process of turning a document...
photoshopped - A play on the word "Photoshop," the software graphics program created by Adobe, it...
PING or ping - Traditionally this term refers to an Internet program used to determine whether a...
plug-and-play - A standard for add-in hardware that requires it to identify itself on demand (see:...
plugged-in - Slang for wired, or being connected.
radar screen - In modern jargon, this refers to the range of interests that a company or individual...
rant-and-rave - To speak on and on about something you feel passionate for. Users often rant-and-rave...
robot - Traditionally, it's a device that can move and react to sensory input. Robots are...
scaleable or scalability - Refers to the ability of hardware or software or even a brand, to adapt to increased...
shelfware - Slang for software that is so worthless it remains in the shrink-wrapped box on the...
showstopper - Slang for anything that has the potential to halt the shipment or to stop the launch...
spammin' - Slang for speaking aimlessly on a mishmash of topics, or to stuff someone's brain...
surf or surfing - To browse or look at information on the Web by pointing and clicking and navigating...
thread - Originally it referred to a chain of postings on a single subject in a newsgroup....
TMI - Online jargon, also known as text message shorthand, used primarily in texting, online...
unplugged - Slang for being not connected. The opposite of wired. It also refers to acoustic music...
user - A term that defines the online audience, it also refers to anyone who "uses" a computer....
yoyo mode - The state in which a computer rapidly alternates several times between being up and...
1	Telus Corp
www.telus.com	Communications products and services	Vancouver	1998	$10.8 billion/

www.shaw.ca	Diversified communications company	Calgary	1966	$5 billion/
$4.7 billion	4,6001/
4,600
Rogers Communications
www.rogers.com	Telecommunications and media company	Toronto	1983	NP/
$12.4 billion	1,9881/
1,988
Lifelabs BC
www.lifelabs.com	Laboratory testing services	Toronto	1969	NP	1,8202/

Electronic Arts
ea.com	Interactive entertainment software	Redwood City, CA	1982	$4.1 million3/
1,200
SAP Canada Inc4
www.sap.com	Business management software, ERP (enterprise resource management) solutions, analytics, mobile, collaboration in the cloud	Walldorf, Germany	1972	$173 million/
$18.6 billion5	1,200/
1,200
7	Bell Canada
www.bell.ca	Communications products and services	Montreal	1880	NP/
$19.5 billion	1,0006/
1,0006
8	IBM Canada
www.ibm.com/ca	Business consulting, technology services, software and hardware products	Armonk, NY	1921	NP	9007/
9007
9	McKesson Enterprise Medical Imaging
www.mckesson.com	Digital image management, hospital systems	San Francisco, CA	1988	NP	723/
730
10	MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates Ltd (MDA)
www.mdacorporation.com	MDA is a global communications and information company providing operational solutions to commercial and government organizations worldwide.	Richmond	1969	$879.9 million/
$761.1 million8	700/
763
11	Alpha Technologies Ltd
www.alpha.ca	Established leader in the design and manufacture of powering solutions for the telecom, cable-broadband, traffic, security, industrial and renewable energy industries	Burnaby	1975	$198 million/
$165 million	490/
461
12	Creation Technologies Inc
www.creationtech.com	Contract electronic manufacturing services provider	Burnaby	1991	$517 million/
$462 million	480/
470
13	Westport Innovations Inc
www.westport.com	Leading global supplier of proprietary solutions that allow engines to operate on clean-burning fuels such as compressed natural gas (CNG), liquefied natural gas (LNG), hydrogen, and renewable natural gas (RNG) fuels such as landfill gas and help reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)	Vancouver	1995	$155.6 million/
$100.8 million	458/
351
14	Fortinet Inc
www.fortinet.com	Fortinet (NASDAQ: FTNT) is a worldwide provider of network security appliances and a market leader in unified threat management (UTM).	Sunnyvale	2000	$533.6 million9/
$433.6 million9	450/
415
14	Microsoft Canada Inc
www.microsoft.com	Sales of computer software	Redmond, WA	1996	NP	450/
3007
16	GLENTEL Inc
www.glentel.com	Independent multi-carrier mobile phone retailer in Canada and Australia, National Premium Retailers of Verizon Wireless products & services in the US, and a leading provider of innovative and reliable relecommunications services and solutions in North America.	Burnaby	1963	$784.8 million/
$583.7 million	428/
4007
17	PMC-Sierra
www.pmc-sierra.com	Semiconductor innovator transforming networks that connect, move and store digital content	Sunnyvale, CA	1992	NP/
$647.1 million10	42011/
42011
18	STEMCELL Technologies Inc
www.stemcell.com	Cell separation, culture media, antibodies, instruments, education and contract assay services	Vancouver	1993	$63.6 million/
$54.6 million	413/
411
19	Sage
http://NA.Sage.com	Business management software, solutions and services for small and midsized businesses	Richmond12	1981	NP	400/
410
20	Avcorp Industries Inc
www.avcorp.com	Provides integrated metallic and composite airframe structures for various commercial and defence aircraft companies	Delta	1986	$89.3 million/
$86 million	380/
455
21	Disney Online Studios Canada (formerly Club Penguin Entertainment)
www.clubpenguin.com	Interactive software company; creator of Club Penguin	Kelowna	2005	NP	3601/
360
22	Absolute Software Corp
www.absolute.com	Leader in firmware-embedded endpoint security and management for computers and ultra-portable devices	Vancouver	1993	$74.6 million/
$72.2 million	3501/
350
22	Maxxam Analytics13
www.maxxam.ca	Laboratory analysis	Mississauga	1969	NP	350/
345
24	Sony Pictures Imageworks
www.imageworks.com	Academy AwardÂ®-winning visual effects and animation unit of Sony Pictures Digital Productions known for live action visual effects and dynamic creature and character animation, all-CG animation, and stereoscopic 3D imagery.	Culver City, CA	1992	NP	324/
NP
25	Sierra Systems14
www.sierrasystems.com	IT and management consulting services, systems integration, and managed services.	Vancouver	1966	$158.2 million/
$162.5 million	315/
33711
26	Vision Critical 
www.visioncritical.com	Insight community technologies and services	Vancouver	2000	$85 million/
$72 million	302/
289
27	Kodak Graphic Communications Group
www.graphics.kodak.com	Technologies, products and services in the graphic communications and document capture industries	Rochester, NY	1892	NP	3007/
3007
27	Top Producer Systems
www.topproducer.com	Real estate sales and marketing solutions	Richmond	1982	NP	3007/
30411
29	Ballard Power Systems Inc
www.ballard.com	Development, manufacture, sale and servicing of clean energy hydrogen fuel cells	Burnaby	1979	$59.2 million/
$75.2 million10	272/
262
30	HootSuite 
www.hootsuite.com	HootSuite helps teams engage with audiences and analyze campaigns across multiple social networks like Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and Google+ Pages from one secure web-based dashboard.	Vancouver	2008	NP	270/
180
30	Philips Ledalite
www.ledalite.com	Commercial architectural lighting fixtures	Langley	1982	NP	270/
30011
32	Bardel Entertainment/Kid Riot Digital
www.bardelentertainment.com	Digital media company focused on creating and producing digital screen based entertainment for children and families. Specializing in animation and creative services for feature films, TV, and interactive on line content.	Vancouver	1988	NP	250/
2007
32	Capcom Game Studio Vancouver15
www.capcomvancouver.com	Two unannounced projects, new IP	Osaka, Japan	2005	NP	250/
230
34	Sierra Wireless Inc
www.sierrawireless.com	Hardware, software, connected services for connected devices and machine-to-machine communications	Richmond	1993	$396.9 million10/
$571.9 million10	2441/
244
35	The Active Network
www.activenetwork.com	Leading provider of organization-based cloud computing applications with over 47,000 global business customers and 70 million annual transactions reported last year	San Diego, CA	1998	NP/
$337.4 million16	2311/
231
35	Quartech Systems Ltd
www.Quartech.com	IT services including outsourcing and consulting	Burnaby	1984	$26.5 million/
$22.2 million	231/
210
37	Ericsson Canada Inc
www.ericsson.com	Leading provider of communications technology and services	Stockholm	1876	NP	220/
220
38	Global Relay
www.globalrelay.com	Market leader in compliance messaging solutions, including compliance archiving, eDiscovery, mobile messaging and collaboration.	Vancouver	1999	$30 million/
$18 million	210/
155
39	Ventyx, an ABB Company
www.ventyx.com	Ventyx, an ABB company, is the world's leading supplier of enterprise software and services for asset intensive industries â€" such as energy, mining, public infrastructure and transportation â€" that help keep our world running	Atlanta, GA	1976	NP	2061/
206
39	Oce Display Graphics Systems
www.oce.com	Office digital printing and copying systems, high-speed digital production small format printers, wide format digital printing systems	Venlo, Netherlands	1877	NP	206/
200
41	Allstream
www.allstream.com	Wireline voice, data, IT consulting, security and managed services across Canada	Toronto	1850	NP	20011/
20011
41	CGI Group Inc
www.cgi.com	End-to-end IT and business process services	Montreal	1976	NP/
$4.3 billion5	200/
200
41	Honeywell Process Solutions
www.honeywell.com	Advanced sensing, control and actuation technologies for industrial processes	Morristown, NJ	1972	NP	200/
200
41	Pacific Insight Electronics Corp
www.pacificinsight.com	Electronic solutions for commercial vehicles and other vehicle sectors	Nelson	1987	$38.6 million/
$32.8 million	200/
200
45	Wesgar Inc
www.wesgar.com	World-class total solution precision sheet metal manufacturer	Port Coquitlam	1965	NP	195/
190
46	AeroInfo Systems, A Boeing Company
www.aeroinfo.com	Business advisory/consulting services and IT services for the aerospace, defence, manufacturing, transportation, logistics and security industries	Richmond	1996	NP	19211/
19211
47	Sophos Inc
www.sophos.com	Providing security and data protection solutions that are simple to manage, deploy and use and that deliver the industry's lowest total cost of ownership	Boston, MA; Oxford, U.K.	1985	NP	190/
190
48	Schneider Electric, Solar Business 17
www.schneider-electric.com/solar	Energy and power monitoring systems, power and automation solutions, electrical distribution network management	Rueil-Malmaison, France	NP	NP	187/
20818
49	Blast Radius
www.blastradius.com	Blast Radius is a global agency that takes a strategic approach to growing brand and revenue in a digitally connected world	Vancouver	1996	NP	177/
177
50	ACL Services Ltd
www.acl.com	ACL delivers technology solutions that are transforming audit and risk management to give organizations unprecedented control over their business	Vancouver	1987	NP	170/
190
50	Annex Consulting Group Inc
www.annexgroup.com	Our IT recruitment and business solutions include software development, project management, business analysis, network infrastructure and management consulting with 97% customer satisfaction since 1998	Vancouver	1998	$18 million/
$14.7 million	170/
160
52	Rainmaker Entertainment Inc19
www.rainmaker.com	CGI animation production for film, TV, home entertainment industry; motion capture and pre-vis capabilities	Vancouver	1979	NP/
$19 million	161/
300
53	Teradici Corp
www.teradici.com	Developer of a PC-over-IP protocol to enable server-based computing	NP	2004	NP	1601/
160
54	BuildDirect
www.builddirect.com	BuildDirect is North America 19s largest online destination for heavy weight building materials	Vancouver	1999	NP	150/
70
55	Squirrel Systems
www.squirrelsystems.com	Point-of-sale solutions for hospitality industry	Burnaby	1984	NP	1451/
145
56	QHR Technologies Inc
www.qhrtechnologies.com	Software design in the enterprise management solutions and electronic medical record software markets	Kelowna	1997	NP/
$23.9 million	140/
140
57	PNI Digital Media Inc
www.pnimedia.com	The world's leading retailers rely on our software platform to offer on-demand personalized products for sale online, from in-store kiosks and from mobile devices	Vancouver	1995	$22.7 million/
$23.7 million	136/
136
58	QuickMobile Inc
www.quickmobile.com	Event apps create "always-on" communication channels that allow event owners to increase attendee participation, generate revenue and build loyalty through rich audience experiences	Vancouver	2006	$6.2 million/
$2.4 million	134/
111
59	Powertech Labs Inc
www.powertechlabs.com	Clean-energy consulting, independing testing, power system solutions and Smart Grid applications	Surrey	1970	NP/
$25.3 million	1301/
130
60	Advanced Integration Technology Canada inc
www.aint.com	Advanced manufacturer of automated machines, systems and precision tooling for aerospace structures including fuselage, wings and empennage.	Langley	2004	$18 million/
$13 million	120/
82
61	Microserve
www.microserve.ca	Value-added resellers of technology solutions and services	Burnaby	1986	NP/
$44.6 million	1171/
117
62	Webtech Wireless Inc
www.webtechwireless.com	Turnkey wireless location-based and telematics services for vehicles	Burnaby	1999	$28.8 million/
$33 million	116/
116
63	Gemcom Software International Inc
www.gemcomsoftware.com	Mining software and services to plan, monitor and optimize their operations.	Vancouver	1985	$101 million/
$88 million	113/
10720
64	Faronics 
www.faronics.com	Solutions to help simplify computer security, increase productivity of existing IT investments and lower IT operating costs	Vancouver	1996	NP/
$22 million	1121/
112
65	Elastic Path Software
www.elasticpath.com	Leading provider of software solutions that bring advanced commerce into every customer experience	Vancouver	2000	NP	107/
115
66	DDS Wireless International Inc
www.ddswireless.com	Wireless mobile data solutions	Richmond	1987	$40.7 million/
$45.7 million	106/
117
67	Digital Payment Technologies Corp
www.digitalpaytech.com	Digital Payment Technologies is an innovative leader in the design, manufacture, and distribution of multi-space parking meters, management software, and online services for the parking industry.	Burnaby	1997	$25.4 million/
$19.4 million	105/
100
68	Ampco Manufacturers Inc
www.ampcomfg.com	Screen and digitally printed graphics, labels, nameplates, electronic membrane switches, CSA and UL labelling solutions, electronic instrumentation panels and components	Coquitlam	1967	$16 million/
$15.7 million	100/
95
68	Knowledgetech Consulting Inc
www.knowledgetech.com	Microsoft IT services and solutions, IT strategy consulting services, IT consultants on demand	Vancouver	1993	$11 million/
$11 million	100/
100
68	Relic Entertainment
www.relic.com	Genre-altering AAA titles	San Francisco	1997	NP/
$28 million	100/
160
68	Safe Software Inc
www.safe.com	Safe Software Inc. is the maker of FME and the global leader in spatial data transformation technology	Surrey	1993	NP	100/
93
72	Clevest
www.clevest.com	Clevest provides software for mobile workforce management and smart grid operations exclusively for electric, gas and water utilities.	Richmond	2002	$15 million/
$12.2 million	97/
92
73	Reliable Controls Corp
www.reliablecontrols.com	Temperature control systems for commercial buildings	Victoria	1986	NP/
$16.6 million	941/
94
74	TMW Systems Canada Inc21
www.tmwsystems.com	Supply chain management and logistics software	Cleveland, OH	1981	$18 million/
$17 million	93/
90
75	Seon Design Inc
www.seon.com	Manufactures mobile surveillance and real-time fleet-management solutions designed for the transit, school bus and coach industries	Coquitlam	1999	NP	90/
106
75	TP Systems
www.tpsystems.com	Software and IT services	New Westminster	1977	NP	901/
90
77	FinancialCAD Corp (FINCAD)
www.fincad.com	Financial derivatives valuation and risk management software and services	Surrey	1990	$0	88/
107
78	Dorigo Systems Ltd
www.dorigo.com	Contract electronic manufacturing services	Burnaby	1988	$21.5 million/
$19.5 million	87/
84
79	UNIT4 Business Software
www.unit4software.com	UNIT4 Agresso offers a fully integrated suite of ERP solutions to meet the current and future requirements of mid-market private sector businesses, non-profits and NGOs, higher education, travel management, and the public sector	Victoria	2000	$24.2 million/
$20.6 million	86/
76
80	Neovasc Inc
www.neovasc.com	Developer, manufacturer and marketer of cardiovascular devices	Richmond	2000	$7.8 million/
$5.3 million	85/
81
80	ParetoLogic
www.paretologic.com	PC security software	NP	NP	$30 million/
$44.7 million	85/
89
82	Compugen Systems Ltd
www.compugen.com	Datacentre architecture; IT outsourcing, services, logistics and fulfillment. Software Asset Management & Ethical, secure & Green asset disposal.	Richmond Hill, ON	1981	$80 million/
$70 million	84/
75
83	Peer 1 Network Enterprises Inc
www.peer1.com	Co-location, managed and self-managed dedicated servers	Vancouver	1999	NP/
$111.6 million10	811/
81
83	Vecima Networks Inc
www.vecima.com	Broadband hardware manufacturer	Victoria	1988	$95.7 million/
$84.5 million	81/
91
85	Atimi Software Inc
www.atimi.com	Contract development of mobile application software for iPad, iPhone, Android, BlackBerry, Windows Phone, Macintosh, Windows, etc.	Vancouver	2000	$11 million/
$6.5 million	80/
72
85	Pixar Canada
www.pixarcanada.com	NP	NP	2010	NP	801/
80
87	Analytic Systems Ware (1993) Ltd
www.analyticsystems.com	Design, manufacture and sourcing of high-performance power conversion products for military, alternative energy, marine and industrial markets	Delta	1976	$9 million/
$8.3 million	78/
78
88	Codan Radio Communications
www.codanradio.com	High Frequency and Land mobile radio base stations and mobiles	Adelaide Australia	1959	$179 million	75/
75
88	Next Level Games
www.nextlevelgames.com	Video Game developers working directly for Nintendo	Vancouver	2002	NP	75/
80
90	Radiant Communications Corp
www.radiant.net	Broadband services for business and virtual hosted applications	Vancouver	1998	NP/
$32.3 million	707/
707
90	Tranzeo Wireless Technologies Inc
www.tranzeo.com	Wireless broadband and WiMAX network products	Pitt Meadows	2000	NP	701/
70
92	Talemetry
www.talemetry.com	Sourcing and recruiting software for corporations, staffing firms, HR software vendors and job boards worldwide.	Richmond	2000	$14.5 million/
$11.2 million	68/
63
93	Times Telecom Inc
www.timestelecom.ca	Long distance, mobile phone, Internet, VoIP, conferencing, TV	Richmond	2002	$13.5 million/
$21.5 million	67/
108
94	Amgen British Columbia Inc
www.amgen.com	Biotechnology medicines: cancer, kidney disease, arthritis, psoriasis	Thousand Oaks, CA	1980	NP/
$15.6 billion22	65/
65
94	Algo Communication Products Ltd
www.algosolutions.com	Develops security, paging, and notification products for integration with hosted and enterprise communication servers. Products include audio, video, and multimedia SIP endpoints as well as VoIP solutions for ODM clients	Burnaby	1968	NP	65/
65
94	Habanero Consulting Group
www.habaneroconsulting.com	Habanero portals increase employee engagement, foster rich customer communities, and facilitate better collaboration with partners. We are proud to be recognized as a top Canadian workplace	Vancouver	1996	$12.5 million/
$12.1 million	65/
62
94	iQmetrix
www.iQmetrix.com	Leading provider of retail management solutions for the North American wireless industry. Our products, RQ4 Retail Management and XQ Interactive Retail help retailers manage back-end operations and the front-of-house customer experience	Vancouver	1999	$73.2 million/
$62.6 million	65/
82
94	teliPhone-Navigata-Westel
www.teliPhone.ca	Managed communications, Telephone, Ethernet, Internet and IT services	Vancouver	1957	NP/
$35 million	65/
107
99	CounterPath
www.counterpath.com	Desktop, tablet and mobile VoIP software products and solutions, including SIP-based softphones, server applications and fixed mobile convergence (FMC) solutions	Vancouver	2002	$14.1 million/
$11 million10	64/
5111
99	Delta-Q Technologies Corp
www.delta-q.com	Battery chargers based on advanced, high efficiency power conversion technology with digital software control for electric vehicle manufacturers: locally developed for the global markets	Burnaby	1999	NP	64/
> A novel circuit I used to build was a primitive "optical isolator".. It consists
> of a resistive photocell and a lamp, all packaged in a tube.  When the lamp is
> off the cell is high resistance.  Turn the lamp on and the resistance lowers
> passing the audio.  Once again this device in a "T" switches the audio.  Varying
> the lamp resistance give a remote volume control.  Use 2 variable resisters and
> you have a mixer!
relays got fouled up.  
You can get a *little* UV by putting a heavy UV filter (deep purple) in
front of an ordinary flashlight bulb (the brightest you can get).
I had a similar idea, for a fax/answering machine switch,
to put both machines on one line.  You order distinctive
ringing from your phone company.  This is $3/month here.
You get a second (unpublished) phone number.  When
someone calls this number, your phone rings with short
rings instead of long rings.
I've had my Fluke 8060A here at work for just over 10 years now.
It is a wonderful meter.  Several colleagues here have some of the
newer Fluke meters, though I still would just as soon hang on to my
8060.  The 8060 a is the 1980s digial "analog" to the Simpson 260
analog DMM of the 1950-1960s.  There was/is (?) an 8060B that had
extended frequency response.

I've got a nifty little pen shaped meter made by Soar that I keep
in my toolbox at home.  I've had that for six or seven years now
and only replaced the batteries a couple of timees; it is more than
adequate for day-to-day hobby use.  I think Soar OEMs their stuff
for a number of vendors.  Some of JDR Microdevices' stuff looks
rather similar to Soar's.
It is possible to park at the mall to the west.  There are shuttle
busses running between the arena and the mall.
My first circuit was a dismal failure.  I used 3 compariators; each
compariator had the + input going to one of the guns, the - input
went to a reference created by a voltage divider(a potentiometer).

The first problem was that the compariator was way too slow.. I
needed to get several pixels in a row before it would fire the
compariators, so I could have a whole screen full of text, but my
circuit would not detect it.   
The second problem is that there was more noise on the reference then
the smallest difference between a blank screen and a dim screen.  In
fact the difference between completely black and completely white is
only 650 mv.  I am wondering if I am going to have to amplify the
video signals to make this work.  

Unfortunately, I am way out of my league when It comes to designing
transistor circuits, so I am appealing to the net for help.  Any
ideas, tips, circuits, pointers, references, etc. would be greatly
appreciated.  
I am considering the use of a quadrant detector from Centronic Inc. to give
information to a pan/tilt head to point the sensor and thus determine the
angles.  For the source I am considering wazing the heck out of an IR LED(s),
possibly an Optek OP290 or Motorola MLED81.  Wazing would mean at least 1 Amp
current pulses.  At this current the duty cycle of the LED drops to 10% and I
would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50% required.
   gstovall@crchh67.NoSubdomain.NoDomain (Greg Stovall) writes:
   >Anyway, over the weekend, I was resting on the sofa (in between chores),
   >and noticed that I briefly picked up what sounded like ham radio traffic
   >over my stereo and television, even though both were off.  Also, all the
   >touch sensitive lights in my house start going wacko, cycling through 
   >their four brightness states.
   for cars put out around 100 watts.  It is possible that a 100 watt
   radio would cause interference to consumer electronic 100 feet 
   away.  Most TVs, stereos, and VCRs have very poor RF shielding.
   If you experience the problem frequently, it may be 
   caused by a ham, CBer, or other radio operator in a base station
   nearby.    The interference may have been caused by a radio 
   transmitter used for other purposes, such as police, fire,
   etc.  If you heard voices over your stereo, I think you are
   correct in assuming that the source is an RF transmitter.

   If you have frequent trouble, you may want to try the RF ferrite
   chokes available at Radio Shack.  The interference is probably
   being picked up by your speaker wires, and those chokes can
   be installed on the wires very easily (without cutting them).
   Good instructions are included with the chokes.
   If that does not solve the problem, you may want to search your
   neighborhood for a radio operator.  Look for antennas on the roof
   or car.  Talk to him/her about your problem.  There are things
   a radio operator can do to reduce interference.

And please remember to be friendly when approaching your
local radio operator.  This person may or may not be the 
cause of your troubles,  and you'll get better cooperation
and help if you assume that he is going to be helpful (most
are).  It was amazing the accusations that we sometimes
dealt with as I grew up.  We were blamed for skip (ghost
pictures on the TV that occur at sunspot peaks),  c.b.
interferance,  dead grass :),  you name it.  

BTW, the local operator should try and help you whether or
not he or she is directly responsible.  It is part of
being a good neighbor and that is how the FCC views it.
Too bad they don't require the consumer equipment makers
to take any precautions.

Last, you can usually tell ham radio vs. CB.  Ham operators are
required to declare their call (sign) every so many minutes (no more
than 10).  So if you hear "This is WA1QT" or some other call starting
with A, W or K and no more than 6 total characters, you heard a ham.
CB'ers probably won't sign (I don't know that they're even required
to) and fire/police have other private ids.

>   Hams can legally run up to 1500 watts.  It is very unlikely, however,
>   that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car.
>
>Not possible either.  You'd need about a 300 amp alternator for
>just the amplifier.
It is too possible.  As the original poster said "it is very unlikely"
but definately possible.  (Can you say batteries?)

Facebook
WhatsApp Messenger[4]	WhatsApp Inc.
Angry Birds[5]	Rovio Mobile Ltd.
YouTube[6]	Google
Skype[7]	Skype
Twitter[8]	Twitter
Adobe Flash Player 11[9]	Adobe Systems
Facebook Messenger[10]	Facebook
Gmail[11]	Google
Fruit Ninja Free[12]	Halfbrick Studios
Street View on Google Maps[13]	Google
Adobe Reader[14]	Adobe Systems
Voice Search[15]	Google
Google+[16]	Google
Google Search[17]	Google
Google Play Books[18]	Google
Google Play services[19]	Google
Tiny Flashlight + LED[20]	Nikolay Ananiev
UC Browser[21]	UC Browser
Instagram[22]	Instagram
Temple Run[23]	Imangi Studios
KakaoTalk Free Calls & Text[24]	Kakao
Pandora® internet radio[25]	Pandora
GO Launcher EX[26]	GO Launcher Dev Team
Angry Birds Seasons[27]	Rovio Mobile Ltd.
Angry Birds Rio[28]	Rovio Mobile Ltd.
Viber : Free Calls & Messages[29]	Viber Media, Ltd
LINE: Free Calls & Messages[30]	NAVER
Talking Tom Cat Free[31]	Outfit7
Talking Tom Cat 2 Free[32]	Outfit7
Drag Racing[33]	Creative Mobile
Angry Birds Space[34]	Rovio Mobile Ltd.
ZEDGE[35]	Zedge
Tango Text, Voice, Video Calls[36]	Tango
Advanced Task Killer[37]	ReChild
Barcode Scanner[38]	ZXing Team
Shazam[39]	Shazam Entertainment Limited
Free Antivirus Security[40]	AVG Mobilation
Adobe AIR[41]	Adobe Systems
Dropbox[42]	Dropbox, Inc.
Pool Master Pro[43]	TerranDroid
Shoot Bubble Deluxe[44]	City Games LLC
Google Translate[45]	Google
Google Play Music[46]	Google
Chrome - browser from Google[47]	Google
Opera Mini web browser[48]	Opera Software
Google Play Movies & TV[49]	Google
Subway Surfers[50]	Kiloo Games
Ant Smasher, Best Free Game[51]	Best Cool & Fun Free Games
PicsArt Photo Studio[52]	PicsArt
1. Angry Birds
2. Fruit Ninja
3. Doodle Jump
4. Cut the Rope
5. Angry Birds Seasons
6. WhatsApp Messenger
7. Camera+
8. Words With Friends
9. Tiny Wings
10.. Angry Birds Space
11. Pocket God
12. Plants vs. Zombies
13. The Game of Life Classic Edition
14. The Moron Test
15. Where’s My Water?
16. Draw Something
17. Monopoly
18. Angry Birds Star Wars
19. MotionX GPS Drive
20. Skee-Ball
21. Scrabble
22. UNO
23. Minecraft – Pocket Edition
24. Color Splash
25. The Sims 3
1. Facebook
2. Pandora Radio
3. Instagram
4. YouTube
5. Skype
6. Words With Friends Free
7. The Weather Channel
8. Twitter
9. Temple Run
10. Google Search
11. Netflix
12. Shazam
13. Angry Birds Free
14. Draw Something Free
15. Flashlight Ⓞ
16. Facebook Messenger
17. Google Earth
18. Fruit Ninja Free
19. iHeartRadio
20. Movies by Flixster, with Rotten Tomatoes
21. Bump
22. eBay
23. PAC-MAN Lite
24. Groupon
25. Google Maps
1. Pages
2. Angry Birds HD
3. Angry Birds Seasons HD
4. Where’s My Water?
5. Fruit Ninja HD
6. Angry Birds Space HD
7. GarageBand
8. Words With Friends HD
9. Cut the Rope HD
10. Keynote
11. Numbers
12. Angry Birds Star Wars HD
13. GoodReader for iPad
14. Scrabble HD for iPad
15. Minecraft – Pocket Edition
16. Plants vs. Zombies HD
17. Notability
18. Monopoly for iPad
19. Quickoffice Pro HD
20. Star Walk HD
21. Draw Something
22. iMovie
23. iPhoto
24. Where’s My Perry?
25. Bad Piggies HD
1. Skype for iPad
2. The Weather Channel for iPad
3. Netflix
4. Angry Birds HD Free
5. Kindle
6. Facebook
7. Pandora Radio
8. Calculator for iPad Free
9. Fruit Ninja HD Free
10. Words With Friends HD Free
11. Google Earth
12. ABC Player
13. Calculator Pro for iPad Free
14. Temple Run
15. YouTube
16. eBay for iPad
17. CNN App for iPad
18. Dropbox
19. Adobe Reader
20. Twitter
21. Solitaire
22. NYTimes for iPad
23. Temple Run 2
24. Hulu Plus
Page: 1 2 3 4 Next »
Wired
1. The Huffington Post
2. BuzzFeed - Latest
3. The Verge
4. Business Insider
5. Mashable!
6. TechCrunch
7. Gawker
8. Engadget
9. TMZ.com | Celebrity Gossip | …
10. The Next Web
11. Ars Technica
13. CNN Political Ticker
14. Breaking news and opinions on …
15. Mediaite
16. Hot Air
17. Deadline.com
18. GigaOM
19. SB Nation
20. Deadspin
20. Laughing Squid
20. Bleacher Report
23. 9 to 5 Mac - Apple Intelligence
24. Jezebel
49. Lifehacker

 Whatsapp is the best creation ever
 WhatsApp is the best app ever
#Facebook: Now all your hashtags ARE BELONG TO US,
First look: Hands-on with iOS 7 – Macworld
#Technology #News Wrapp raises $15M from American Express and others to bolster its social gifting service
#Technology #News BubblePod is a wind-up turntable that captures perfect 360-degree panoramas with your smartphone
10 Things You Need To Know This Morning
LETTER: Technology Overuse Creates Exposure - Hartford Courant 
#suaju #share #media File-Sharing Service isoHunt Illegally Fosters Piracy, Appeals Court Says #technology #geek
Yahoo reseteará las cuentas inactivas: http://bit.ly/12pdRmS  #gadgets #tecnologia #technology #latinos
"PS4 or Xbox One: Sony and Microsoft go head-to-head at E3 - so which will you buy?"
CloudFlare's Mirage 2.0 Speeds Up Mobile Sites By Using Virtualized Images And Minimizing Requests 
What's Fueling Growth In The Fragmented World Of Messaging Apps? Immigrants.
Daily Report: Intel Aims to Remake the TV Landscape: Intel's ambition to sell a bundle of televisi.
What I learned at Facebook's Big Data bootcamp 
Book News: Inmate Fights For His Right To Read Werewolf Erotica
#UCWRadio  Social Gifting App Maker Wrapp Closes On $15 Million In Series B Funding
Social Gifting App Maker Wrapp Closes On $15 Million In Series B Funding
PS4 vs. Xbox One: Three arguments for each console - USA TODAY 
In Pics: Future games at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2013 - Livemint 
What are people googling - in real time #tech #news 
'Plants vs. Zombies 2' Is a Sequel Worth the Wait
RT @studymagazine: New Post:  How to Become a 3D Animator
#technology How to Customize Your Mobile Google Maps Experience
Wrapp raises $15M from American Express and others to bolster its social gifting service 
Android May Ask Users to Make a Face 
I guess IBM really does stand for "I've Been Moved!" #innovation #IBM #design #design_thinking 
You can choose who will win the 2014 #MillenniumTechnologyPrize Nominate your favourite #technology pioneer at
#technology #Facebook: Now all your hashtags ARE BELONG TO US, Twitter 
#Technology: Flying bike for easier commutes - Researchers in the Czech Republic have unveiled a 95kg (210lb) remo
MT @edworkspartners: #Technology & #classroom: Girls: greater challenges balance #digital learning with #sociallives Oarfish Makes Rare Video Appearance http://goo.gl/fb/MgHcH  #tech #technology #technology
How to stop the NSA spying on your data http://goo.gl/fb/qJ2Td  #tech #technology
What I learned at Facebook's Big Data bootcamp http://bit.ly/19ue4bm  http://goo.gl/oPOS3  #tech #technology
Labor's Paradise Lost: http://bit.ly/11FuJ3M  Excellent piece about the implications of Keynes' ideas on technological unemployment
Derivatives Are Weapons Of Slow Economic Destruction http://huff.to/11FtPUT  "A tax that redistributes wealth upwards…sapping the economy"
Great project: Mozilla science lab
RT @ginablaber: Excellent pointers from @simonstl on how to make the most of the hallway track at a conference 
Warner Bros has taken $100s of millions in copyright fees for Happy Birthday
RT @OReillyMedia Deal/Day: Save 50% on Social Engineering Ebooks - Use Black Hat Ingenuity to Harden Your Defenses Tool suggestions from @BraidApp for teams working remotely http://oreil.ly/13KEGi4  Hackpad, Trello, Flowdock & more
YESSS!!! International mobile roaming charges within EU to be abolished from July 2014
So glad about this RT @mikeloukides: Excellent summary of today's SCOTUS ruling that human genes are not patentable 
RT @velocityconf Registration OPEN for #velocityconf NY 
It was fun to contribute! MT @criscristina: Oakland Answers
 Listening: @scholarlykitchn #podcast - @timoreilly on Building a Business and the Scholarly Publishing Scene  http://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2013/06/06/scholarly-kitchen-podcast-tim-oreilly-on-building-a-business-and-the-scholarly-publishing-scene/ …
Open access journal @ThePeerJ just turned one year old http://blog.peerj.com/post//celebrating-the-one-year-anniversary-of-peerj … Join the future of science publishing!
Conference on the API economy @PARISOMA w/ #apidaysSF June 21-23! Tickets: http://bit.ly/1bpVei2  via @karlamacedo
Erlang by Example with @FrancescoC and Thompson - $14.99 (Save 50%) Use code VDWK http://oreil.ly/ZHIf9A 
Nothing encourages conversation as much as a wall full of books. Long Now is "brickstarting" its drinking library. https://longnow.org/salon/ 
YES. This needs to stop! RT @tempo: "It is now criminal to expose crimes of the state." - Thomas Drake http://guardiannews.com/commentisfree/2013/jun/12/snowden-surveillance-subverting-constitution …
Breathalyzer for diabetes or lung cancer:  amazing applications of nanofibers. Materials FTW  http://zite.to/11BfhWb 
On the rise: Use of drones for data gathering in science http://bit.ly/12pL8OM  via @slashdot
Genomics impact on US economy approaches $1T. http://bit.ly/12pIRmA  Human Genome Project another great example of gov as platform
Good @wired profile of Gen Keith Alexander, head of the NSA, and the cyberware empire he's building http://bit.ly/12pGMXT 
Thinking of leaving Twitter until they take action against this wave of weight loss spam. Should be their absolute top priority right now.
Good summary of The Race Against the Machine (technology as job destroyer) http://bit.ly/12pFKeF  We will make new kinds of work, though
Google took in nearly one-third of all digital ad dollars last year, and half of mobile ad revenue http://nie.mn/1a7xpOr 
RT @OReillyMedia #Ebook Deal/Day: CSS3: The Missing Manual - $13.99 (Save 50%) Use code DEAL http://oreil.ly/194tEb4 
Google Glass teardown http://bit.ly/ZJMj9h  The framing quote is over the top, but the info is good.
RT @OReillyMedia #Ebook Deal/Day: Distributed Network Data by @aalan and @kippworks - $7.99 (Save 50%) Use code DEAL
Author of the Patriot Act says NSA surveillance goes beyond the law http://bit.ly/108TQRn 
Fab piece about wisdom, age, unemployment: http://bit.ly/14SRBO8  "Hunt for problems, not for a job" via @gnat
Fascinating demonstration: http://bit.ly/103GeGU  What if reporters wrote about the US the way the wrote about other countries. #eyeopening
Put together a custom, modular, organized go bag this weekend:
Word Notebooks come with a to-do list system integrated into the margins!
Do you really need a smartphone?
This iPhone app will help you find something fun to do this weekend, exactly when and where you want to do it
Get iBoostUp Premium for half off today and clean up all the clutter on your Mac
Ever forget why you walked into another room? Sharpen your memory with a little visualization
Microsoft made it harder to manage Wi-Fi networks in Windows 8. If you want more control, head to the command line
Today's featured workspace is the contest winner for Google's own staff workspace redesign competition
Revo Uninstaller Pro, our favorite uninstaller for Windows, is 50% off right now and packs some great features
Thinking about getting your parents a smartphone? Here's how to pick the right one: http://lifehac.kr/87zdbS9 
Did you know your browser is also an instant calculator and conversion tool? http://lifehac.kr/TArs9qw 
This Chrome extension adds events you check out on the web to your Google Calendar so you don't forget to go: http://lifehac.kr/KLrwwHU 
Convert those old battery powered electronics to work with an AC adapter: http://lifehac.kr/RUiwGP7 
Convert those Pandora radio stations into Spotify playlists with a click: http://lifehac.kr/eQKA0Zr 
Baking a cake? This infographic highlights some healthy substitutions to cut down the flour, sugar, or fat: http://lifehac.kr/ahuA7Xo 
Why you should drink beer for big ideas, coffee to get them done
Microsoft Office for the iPhone is here, as long as you have Office 365: http://lifehac.kr/mW1TtAg 
Looking for fast, free streaming music that doesn't suck? Try Earbits: http://lifehac.kr/HFpBhQ5 
Facebook Graph Search is great for more than just collecting data. Here are some clever ways to make the most of it: http://lifehac.kr/2EM3Ot2 
This week on the podcast we're talking about all of Apple's new announcements, government spying, and voice commands: http://lifehac.kr/lj3TqXE 
Lost in the woods?  Use an acorn to call for help! http://lifehac.kr/nfkXuNB 
Feeling fatigued during the day? Start with a sleep study. http://lifehac.kr/8rop5Pt 
Grilling season is here, and we're looking for the best. Which grills do you recommend? http://lifehac.kr/XQkjlV0 
A weeklong family getaway for only $500? It's possible with a "staycation": http://lifehac.kr/oLsl0XM 
Do you remember your very first cell phone? We knew you would. Let's see those pics: http://lifehac.kr/qtAWbSN 
The Ask Lifehacker podcast is LIVE right now! Come watch and ask us some questions: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SZP3JBtBHak …
 View media
Slow Feeds is a handy RSS reader that finds the articles you might have missed: http://lifehac.kr/9inXmHy 
Your public library is more useful than you think: http://lifehac.kr/DeziaGO 
Get all the cash back you deserve! Wallaby tells you the best credit card to use wherever you're shopping or dining: http://lifehac.kr/JWOvepJ 
Don't underdecorate (or overdecorate) your workspace or you might send the wrong signal to your employers: http://lifeha
Google+ notifications just got a lot better, and synced across your devices to boot: http://lifehac.kr/6YpMl4P 
Get enough sleep and exercise but still feel tired all the time? Here's what may be causing that: http://lifehac.kr/KEzg
Heading to an airport that doesn't have free Wi-Fi? Use Foursquare to find the passwords: http://lifehac.kr/LbPzWLB 
Here's one of the best parenting hacks we've learned: Color code your kids! http://lifehac.kr/VaZdPEc 
Not sure what the heck you want to do with your life? Here are a few mental trick to help you figure it out: http://life
You don't need to buy anything to make yourself happy. Just thinking about expensive products is all you need: http://lifehac.kr/h676ODF 
A ton of different Arduino boards exist. Here's the differences between the most common ones: http://lifehac.kr/ghxqoer 
Ground Control allows you to monitor your Raspberry Pi's health remotely: http://lifehac.kr/Zb96kSR 

